CNN reported
 that the freshman congresswoman from Georgia repeatedly indicated support for executing prominent Democratic politicians in 2018 and 2019, according to a CNN KFile review of hundreds of posts and comments from her Facebook page. In the days after CNN's reporting, other past comments and actions from recent years resurfaced, 
including a confrontation
 with Parkland school shooting survivor David Hogg, and another post 
agreeing with people
 who said the Parkland shooting was a "false flag" operation.
Greene has also 
deleted videos
 she posted on Facebook Live where she said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is "guilty of treason" and that she will "suffer death or she'll be in prison" for her "treason."
Lawmakers calling for Greene's expulsion from Congress
As of Tuesday evening, at least 67 House lawmakers have signed onto a resolution to be introduced by Democratic Rep. Jimmy Gomez calling for Greene's expulsion from Congress. 
Under the Constitution, the House of Representatives has the power to expel any member with a two-thirds vote, but 
it's unlikely Greene will be forced to give up her seat
. Republicans control just under half the seats in the chamber, and GOP leadership has not shown any steps so far toward reprimanding Greene for her comments or previous posts.
Democrats
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York
Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota
Rep. Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts
Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan
Rep. Maxine Waters of California
Rep. Ro Khanna of California
Rep. Jason Crow of Colorado
Rep. Pramila Jayapal of Washington
Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida
Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman of New Jersey
Rep. Joyce Beatty of Ohio
Rep. Darren Soto of Florida
Rep. Barbara Lee of California
Rep. Ritchie Torres of New York
Rep. Nydia Velázquez of New York
Rep. Gerry Connolly of Virginia 
Rep. Matt Cartwright of Pennsylvania
Rep. Marilyn Strickland of Washington
Rep. Kathleen Rice of New York
Rep. Raúl Grijalva of Arizona
Rep. Nikema Williams of Georgia
Rep. Veronica Escobar of Texas
Rep. Jamaal Bowman of New York
Rep. Jahana Hayes of Connecticut
Rep. Dwight Evans of Pennsylvania
Rep. Donald McEachin of Virginia
Rep. Albio Sires of New Jersey
Rep. André Carson of Indiana
Rep. Judy Chu of California
Rep. Jacob Auchincloss of Massachusetts
Rep. Mark DeSaulnier of California
Rep. John Larson of Connecticut
Rep. David Trone of Maryland
Rep. Susan Wild of Pennsylvania
Rep. Juan Vargas of California
Rep. Robin Kelly of Illinois
Rep. Frederica Wilson of Florida
Rep. Bill Pascrell of New Jersey
Rep. Alan Lowenthal of California
Rep. Ann Kuster of New Hampshire
Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee
Rep. Jerry McNerney of California
Rep. Adriano Espaillat of New York
Rep. Dina Titus of Nevada
Rep. Yvette Clarke of New York
Rep. Ted Deutch of Florida
Rep. Ruben Gallego of Arizona
Rep. Earl Blumenauer of Oregon
Rep. Donald Payne Jr. of New Jersey
Rep. Brendan Boyle of Pennsylvania
Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton of the District of Columbia
Rep. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts
Rep. Anna Eshoo of California
Rep. Lori Trahan of Massachusetts
Rep. Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut
Rep. Mondaire Jones of New York
Rep. Marie Newman of Illinois
Rep. Kathy Castor of Florida
Rep. Grace Napolitano of California
Rep. Jared Huffman of California
Rep. Grace Meng of New York
Rep. Scott Peters of California
Rep. Adam Smith of Washington
Rep. Jan Schakowsky of Illinois
Rep. Jesús García of Illinois
Rep. Tony Cárdenas of California
Rep. Bill Foster of Illinois
Lawmakers calling for her censure
Some lawmakers are urging for Greene's censure. Censuring a member of the House represents the chamber's deep disapproval of a member's misconduct and is imposed with a simple majority vote. Democrats maintain a slight majority in the House.
Democrats
Rep. Nikema Williams of Georgia
Rep. Sara Jacobs of California
