No other details were made immediately available about the trip slated for June 1.
This year marks the 
100th anniversary of a race massacre in the Greenwood District of Tulsa
, which encompassed more than 35 city blocks of entirely Black-owned businesses. A beacon for African Americans looking to escape the discrimination and violence of the Jim Crow South and live a peaceful and safe life, the district was founded by Black men and women -- many of whom were descendants of slaves -- and became known as Black Wall Street.
On May 31, 1921, racial tensions and violence with the neighboring White residents in Tulsa boiled over in a massacre. Hundreds of Greenwood's Black residents were killed and the district was left in ashes.
The White House's announcement of the visit came after Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris met on Tuesday with 
the family of George Floyd on the one-year anniversary
 of his death at the hands of a Minneapolis police officer, sparking nationwide protests against racism and police brutality. 
Meanwhile, the 
George Floyd Justice in Policing Act
 -- legislation that would set up a national registry of police misconduct, ban racial and religious profiling by law enforcement and overhaul qualified immunity for police officers -- remains stalled in the Senate. Biden had set an initial goal of having the legislation passed by Tuesday, but the White House backed off that deadline to allow negotiations to continue in Congress.
Biden's visit to Tulsa comes nearly a year after his predecessor took a
 controversial trip to the city
. Last June, then-President Donald Trump 
visited Tulsa in his first campaign rally
 since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, which by that time had already caused
 more than 2.2 million cases and 118,900 deaths
 in the United States, according to 
data
 from Johns Hopkins University.
Trump's visit was 
initially slated for June 19 -- Juneteenth
, the holiday commemorating the end of slavery in the United States. The date was met with widespread criticism amid the national outcry following Floyd's death and nationwide protests over police brutality and racial inequality. Trump announced days before Juneteenth that he would 
reschedule the rally
 to June 20 "out of respect for this holiday."
During the rally, Trump stirred controversy anew when he 
said he had told officials in his administration to slow down coronavirus testing
 because of the rising number of cases in America. Tulsa also saw 
an increase in Covid-19 cases
 following the rally.
