If Muslim Americans had to 
live in fear
 because Donald Trump wanted to rile up his rally crowds with 
fictional stories about Muslim disloyalty
, so be it.   
If Americans had to get sick and die because Trump thought his campaign would benefit from 
deceiving them about the severity of the coronavirus pandemic
, so be it.   
And if, because Trump wouldn't admit he lost a fair election, 
police officers had to face an angry mob
, elected officials had to 
take cover in gas masks
, the international reputation of the United States had to be 
damaged
, blue-collar workers had to 
pick up the pieces
 of a damaged Capitol, and 
four people had to die
 -- well, to borrow a phrase from one of Trump's Wednesday 
tweets
, "these are the things and events that happen."   
Trump did not create the broken information ecosystem that led the country toward the Wednesday calamity. It was 
clear prior to his presidency
 that years of baloney from radio talkers, Fox News hosts, chain emailers, message board posters and social media personalities had poisoned the political brains of millions of Republican voters.   
But in the four years I've been debunking his lies, the man who launched his Republican career on a 
racist lie about President Barack Obama
 has made the problem so much worse. He has 
lied with astonishing frequency in office
, making presidential dishonesty such a normal occurrence that it has usually not been treated as news. He has done so while 
steering his supporters away
 from truth-telling information sources and 
toward the least trustworthy outlets
, actively fostering a climate in which his lies get rewarded and reinforced.  
And, critically, he has made the endorsement of his lies a central requirement for belonging in his coalition. Before Trump, you could be a Republican in good standing if you did not accept bonkers claims that the Clintons had dozens of their opponents murdered. To Trump, you are a "
RINO
," Republican In Name Only, if you question his bonkers claims about election fraud.  
Trump repeated those claims in the 
Wednesday rally speech
 that preceded the mayhem at the Capitol. Media outlets fairly 
reported
 that he had incited the mob.    
I'm not the President's psychiatrist, but I've 
read every word
 he has uttered since his inauguration, so I feel qualified to say this: Trump generally does not lie out of a desire to wreck things. He lies out of a need to make himself look and feel successful, superior and beloved. The possibility of wreckage is a consequence he can't be bothered to contemplate.   
When the lying is about 
his wealth
, his 
golf game
 or 
how much Oprah used to like him
, the subjects are so trivial that the palpable desperation behind the deception can border on amusing.  
But the subject of his current desperate lying is democracy itself, and his thirst for the affirmation he couldn't earn at the ballot box is in irreconcilable conflict with the interests of the country. Whether or not he eases off in the wake of the Capitol crisis -- and don't bet on it -- all Americans are his victims today. 
