But now his lawyer has. On the floor of the US Senate. 
Bruce Castor Jr.'s performance at the outset of Trump's second impeachment trial will likely be remembered more for his 
aimless rambling
 than anything else. But Castor's Tuesday monologue was also noteworthy for something he said while attempting to get to a rare point. 
Castor argued that the real reason Trump was impeached again is that his opponents in the House Democratic majority do not want to see him run in the 2024 election. (If two-thirds of senators present vote to convict Trump, a simple majority of senators 
could then decide
 to ban Trump from holding future office.) Castor said the decision on who serves as the next president should be left up to the American people.
And Castor 
said
: "The people are smart enough ... to pick a new administration if they don't like the old one. And they just did." Then, soon after, Castor added that this is commonplace: "The people get tired of an administration they don't want. And they know how to change it. And they just did." 
Castor's assertion about what the people "just did" is obvious to anyone who is willing to acknowledge reality. Except Trump has tried hard to create an alternative reality. 
Though Joe Biden trounced Trump in the Electoral College and 
earned over seven million more votes
, fair and square, Trump has 
declared
 again and again that the people actually reelected him in a "landslide" and that fraud and theft cheated him out of his rightful victory. (He repeated this nonsense even in the 
video
 he tweeted out during the Capitol insurrection.) 
While Trump eventually 
admitted
, in his waning days in office, that a new administration would be taking over, he never conceded that voters had truly chosen someone else over him -- much less that voters had done so because they did not "want" or "like" the Trump administration. 
Trump's lawyers' pre-trial statements were filled with Trump-style 
false claims
 and 
distortions
. But Castor just meandered his way into truthfully blowing up one of his client's favorite lies.
