"Niviane Petit Phelps knowingly and willfully made threats to kill and inflict bodily harm upon the Vice President of the United States in violation of Title 18, United States Code Section 871," from February 13 through February 18, according to the complaint. 
On March 3, Special Agent David Ballenger was notified of a threat to kill Harris, according to the complaint. The threats were sent by Phelps to her incarcerated spouse in Wakulla Correctional Institution via JPay, a computer application that allows for sharing of media between non-incarcerated and incarcerated people.
A Secret Service special agent assigned to the case obtained the videos and photographs that were sent by Phelps to her spouse.
"The videos (that are of relevance to this investigation) generally depict Phelps complaining and speaking angrily to the camera about her hatred for President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, among others," read the complaint. "However, in these videos, Phelps also made statements about killing Vice President Harris."
In one of the videos, "Phelps stated: 'Kamala Harris you are going to die. Your days are numbered already," added the complaint.
In another video on February 18, Phelps stated, "I'm going to the gun range. ... I swear to God, today is your day you're gonna die. 50 days from today, mark this day down," 
Phelps was also shown at a shooting range in a photo dated two days later, according to the complaint. "On February 22, 2021, Phelps applied for a concealed weapons permit."
On March 3, the Secret Service and detectives from the Miami-Dade Police Department went to Phelps' residence to attempt to interview her, but she refused to speak with them at the time, according to the complaint.
"Two days later, I received a call from Phelps, who complained that her employer had put her on administrative leave," read the complaint.
On March 6, a Secret Service agent went to speak with Phelps at her home.
According to the complaint, Phelps said, "She was angry at the time about Kamala Harris becoming Vice President but that she is 'over it now.' Phelps expressed how she believes Kamala Harris not actually 'black' and how during inauguration Kamala Harris disrespectfully put her hand on her clutch purse instead of the bible. Phelps continued saying that somebody told her that America is going to choose who they choose, so Phelps had put her rage about the Vice President aside. Phelps stated that she is now 'past it."  
CNN has reached out to Phelps' public defender for comment.
