"The Secretary has no symptoms and has tested negative twice. Official DHS 
contact tracing
 is underway," DHS Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs Marsha Espinosa said in a statement Tuesday.
The recommendations were "informed by the Office of the DHS Chief Medical Officer and are driven by an overabundance of caution," she added.
Mayorkas is 
fully vaccinated
, according to Espinosa, who did not provide information on the employee's vaccination status.
President Joe Biden will announce
 on Thursday a requirement that all federal employees and contractors be vaccinated against Covid-19 or be required to submit to regular testing and mitigation requirements, according to a source with direct knowledge of the matter.
Mayorkas participated remotely in a congressional hearing on Tuesday. Earlier Tuesday, DHS announced it had postponed the secretary's' inaugural 2021 State of Homeland Security address, which had been scheduled for Thursday as an in-person event.
The secretary's work arrangements were 
first reported by Politico
. 
In Tuesday's address, Mayorkas had planned to lay out his vision for the department's next chapter, discuss the 
evolving threats
 of the 21st century and the department's mission and values, according to a DHS announcement. 
It's unclear when the event will take place or if it will be held remotely. The State of Homeland Security address is typically an opportunity for secretaries to  provide the public with an update on the threat environment facing the US and their vision for the department. 
Speaking remotely during Tuesday's Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee hearing, Mayorkas said the Biden administration is assessing whether 
pandemic-era nonessential travel restrictions on US borders
 can be eased in a "limited way."
Democratic Sen. Gary Peters of Michigan asked Mayorkas about the restrictions and whether they could be tailored, given 
Canada's decision to reopen to American travelers
.
"We are looking at all the different ways that we can compartmentalize the issue and see whether we can allow certain flows or ease certain restrictions in a limited way without imperiling the public health and safety of the American people, as well as the people in Canada. This is something we're looking at very carefully and in many different ways," Mayorkas said. 
