Some of the weapons that were confiscated had been seen being used inside the US Capitol including a baseball bat, a fire extinguisher, a wooden club, a spear, crutches, a flagpole, bear spray, mace, chemical irritants, stolen police shields, a wooden beam, a hockey stick, a stun gun, and knives. 
Many of these weapons were used to attack police officers who were protecting the Capitol. 
One leading theory into the 
death of Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick
 is that the suspects sprayed an irritant, perhaps bear spray, that caused Sicknick to suffer a fatal reaction, a US official told CNN.  Federal investigators are narrowing their suspects in the murder probe. 
The 
hand-to-hand combat 
sent more than a dozen officers to the hospital, including some who sustained concussions and bone fractures. The former chief of the US Capitol Police said his officers fought off the armed crowd for about an hour before the rioters overpowered the police lines. 
Sen. Ron Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican, made waves this week after downplaying the attack that killed five people and injured more than 100 police officers. In addition, two officers died by suicide in the days after the insurrection. 
In 
an interview 
with a Milwaukee radio station, Johnson condemned the assault on the Capitol and said it was "reprehensible and never should have happened." 
But then he claimed that "edited" videos made the situation look worse than it was, and seemingly defended the violent mob.  
"This didn't seem like an armed insurrection to me," Johnson said in an interview with WISN in Milwaukee. "When you hear the word 'armed,' don't you think of firearms? Here's the questions I would have liked to ask: How many firearms were confiscated? How many shots were fired?" 
Police said they 
found a gun 
on Christopher Alberts while he was exiting the Capitol. The Maryland native tried to flee but was restrained by officers, who also found 25 rounds of ammunition, according to court documents. Alberts allegedly told police he had the gun for "personal protection," and he hasn't yet entered a plea, according to court records. 
Other Trump supporters who came to Washington but didn't enter the Capitol were discovered with a wide array of extremely dangerous weapons, according to the CNN review. 
Lonnie Coffman of Alabama was 
arrested near the Capitol 
shortly before the attack and was found with what one judge called a "small armory" in his truck. Investigators discovered three  guns, 11 Molotov cocktails, a crossbow with bolts, smoke bombs and a stun gun, according to court documents. Coffman, 70, pleaded not guilty last month to a 17-count criminal indictment. 
Prosecutors have not accused Coffman of participating in the attack on the Capitol, and his lawyer said at a hearing that Coffman was "innocent" of the charges.  
Someone placed
 two pipe bombs 
near the Republican National Committee and the Democratic National Committee headquarters, blocks from the Capitol. The FBI said the bombs were real but didn't go off, and they have increased the cash reward for information about the bomber. 
The 
nonpartisan fact-checker PolitiFact
 gave Johnson a "pants on fire" rating for his false claim that the rioters weren't "armed." Johnson's office hasn't answered CNN's request for comment.
