"We have just learned that someone we invited to CPAC has expressed reprehensible views that have no home with our conference or our organization," CPAC organizers said Monday in a tweeted statement. "The individual will not be participating at our conference."
Young Pharaoh, the hip-hop artist whose appearance was canceled, 
reacted with an anti-Semitic tweet
. He called CPAC's decision "#CENSORSHIP AT ITS BEST!"
He said he'd been removed from the lineup because he'd claimed he does not "BELIEVE IN THE VALIDITY" of Judaism, and wanted to bet $50,000 on himself in a debate with "THE TOP #JEWISH RABBI"
The cancellation of Young Pharaoh's appearance came after 
Media Matters for America surfaced his long history of anti-Semitic comments
 on social media, which include calling the religion a "complete lie" that was "made up for political gain." He has also embraced several wild conspiracy theories about the coronavirus pandemic, the January 6 riot at the Capitol and more.
The annual conservative gathering is set to take place in Orlando, Florida, later this week. CPAC is a major annual event on the right and has been a major boost for some Republican presidential candidates, including Ronald Reagan -- who delivered his famous "Shining City upon a Hill" speech at the first CPAC in 1974 -- and Trump. 
Young Pharaoh -- described in CPAC's program as a "Philosopher, Scholar, Musician" -- was set to appear on a Sunday panel titled "Please Check the Number and Dial Again: Doubt, Dysfunction, and the Price of Missed Opportunities." What's not clear is how CPAC organizers missed Young Pharaoh's long history of anti-Semitism and conspiratorial comments, which have long been a major part of his social media presence.
Young Pharaoh's cancellation came in a year when CPAC titled its gathering "America Uncanceled," a nod to right-wing complaints about "cancel culture" that have heightened since Twitter and other platforms banned Trump following the January 6 riot spurred by Trump's attempts to cancel key states' results in the 2020 election. 
