At that moment, Fox News was in a commercial break from its regular programming. It had just urged viewers to stay tuned for a segment about educators "
canceling
" Dr. Seuss. 
And so America's most popular right-wing television network again missed a chance -- or, perhaps, again chose to miss a chance -- to confront its viewers with the debunking of a lie that has become a widespread belief among right-wing Americans.
In part because of Fox, the conspiracy theory has become pervasive in conservative circles. Opinion polls suggest that a large percentage of Republicans baselessly think that Antifa was primarily responsible for the insurrection that was actually perpetrated by supporters of former President Donald Trump, some of whom have 
allegedly expressed irritation
 that Antifa has been given the credit for their own behavior.
In a January 
poll
 by the conservative American Enterprise Institute think tank, 50% of Republicans said Antifa was mostly responsible for the violence at the Capitol. A January 
poll
 by NBC found that 48% of Republican registered voters thought Antifa was solely or mainly responsible for the Capitol riot. 
The problem is bigger than Fox
Fox News deserves part of the blame for this worrying state of affairs. Some of its most 
prominent
 
personalities
 have given fuel to the lie. Other Fox personalities have 
joined Trump
 in 
generally overhyping
 the danger posed by Antifa -- a far-left, sometimes 
violent
 collection of self-described anti-fascists -- thus priming viewers to perceive a movement that has been 
much less deadly
 than far-right extremism as a principal threat to the nation. 
But the problem here is bigger than any one media outlet. The lie about Antifa and the Capitol has been promoted by a large roster of right-wing people and entities. 
They include right-wing television networks 
Newsmax
 and 
One America News
; Trump personal attorney 
Rudy Giuliani
 and Trump impeachment attorney 
Michael van der Veen
; Republican members of Congress like 
Rep. Mo Brooks
, 
Rep. Matt Gaetz
 and 
Sen. Ron Johnson
; 
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton
 and Republican 
state legislators
; former Alaska governor and vice presidential candidate 
Sarah Palin
; right-wing conspiracy websites like 
The Gateway Pundit
; and 
popular right-wing commentators
 on social media and talk radio. 
The peddlers of the lie have found a tiny nugget of truth to help their cause. Of more than 260 Capitol defendants who have been revealed by the Department of Justice to date, one of them, John Sullivan, is a 
political oddball
 who has 
used the hashtag #antifa on social media
. But left-wing activists have 
previously expressed suspicion about him
, the FBI has never claimed that he is an actual Antifa activist and, regardless, the list of people charged over the riot is overwhelmingly composed of Trump supporters -- including, as Wray 
testified
 Tuesday, 
militia members
 and 
White supremacists
. 
A history of blaming Antifa
In a well-reported 
story
 this week
, 
The New York Times identified a false article published by the conservative Washington Times on the day of the insurrection as particularly impactful in the spread of the lie that Antifa was responsible. The article, which the Washington Times later 
corrected
, wrongly 
claimed
 that a facial recognition company had identified two Antifa members at the Capitol. 
There's no doubt that the inaccurate version of the article went viral on social media. If it hadn't, though, some other Antifa-related lie almost certainly would have.
Joan Donovan, research director at Harvard University's Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy, noted that right-wing media has found a way to falsely blame Antifa for everything from 
mass shootings
 to 
wildfires
. The lie about Antifa orchestrating the Capitol attack, Donovan said, is part of "a very long disinformation campaign against the left" by a "right-wing media ecosystem that wants to shift the blame for anything bad that happens in our society."
And much of the ecosystem of right-wing media consumers is willing to eat it up. 
As impossible as it seems to get Fox News and other lucrative right-wing platforms to behave more responsibly in supplying information, it seems just as hard to address the demand-side problem. Between the popularity of absurd 
lies
 about the birthplace of former President Barack Obama, the rise of the 
bonkers QAnon movement
, the 
popularity
 of Trump's lies about the 2020 election and now the popularity of this lie about Antifa and the Capitol, it appears clear that millions of right-wing Americans are eager to believe in outlandish conspiracy theories about their political opponents.  
Fact-checkers will keep debunking the nonsense. But we know that in the short term there is no number of fact checks or statements from the FBI that can convince millions of Americans that they are wrong.
