This is consistent across
 polling data
 and real-world activities, 
such as flying
.
This step in the country's return to "normal" seems to have been driven at least in part by vaccinated people being more willing to go out, but there is a real partisan divide. That is, fully vaccinated Republicans seem far more willing to resume normal activities than fully vaccinated Democrats. 
Let's take a look at a recent June 
Axios/Ipsos poll
, which has been tracking Americans' habits since the beginning of the pandemic. 
Vaccinated people as a whole seem to be venturing out more than they used to. In the latest Ipsos poll, 45% indicated they were social distancing in the last week (i.e. staying home and avoiding others as much as possible). That's down 60% last month. 
Unvaccinated Americans saw a decline in social distancing, but it wasn't at the same level as the vaccinated. Back in early May, 47% indicated they were socially distancing. It was 40% in the latest poll. 
Zooming in on the vaccinated group in this poll, we see a massive partisan divide. Fully vaccinated Republicans at 31% are far less likely to say they're social distancing than Democrats at 51%. This 20-point (51% - 31%) gap was closer to 30 points a month ago, but it's still very much exists.
When people who have been fully vaccinated are going out, they're also far less likely to use a mask than they used to. In early May, for example, 65% of fully vaccinated adults say they were always wearing a mask when they left their house. Just 46% of the unvaccinated told the pollster that they were always wearing a mask. 
By the middle of May,
 the CDC adjusted its guidance 
to say vaccinated people did not need to wear a mask indoors or outdoors in most circumstances. 
Vaccinated people, as a whole, seemed to hear the message. Earlier this month, just 37% of fully vaccinated adults said they were always wearing a mask when they were outside of their house. 
We didn't see the same drop among the unvaccinated over the same period. A nearly equal 36% of this group indicated in June they were always wearing a mask when they were outside of their house. 
Still, the partisan gap is very present. Only 20% of fully vaccinated Republicans said they were always wearing a mask when they go out. Among Democrats, it was 48%. The size of this partisan difference (nearly 30 points) is pretty much the same as it was a month ago, even as the percentage of both fully vaccinated Democrats and Republicans always wearing masks dropped. 
This gets at something that has been shown in 
other pollin
g: Democrats tend to overestimate the threat of Covid-19, while Republicans tend to underestimate it. 
When vaccinated people are going out, they seem to be likely to be doing minor and major activities. 
A 
CBS News/YouGov poll 
released last weekend found that 75% of fully vaccinated adults indicated they were comfortable eating out at a bar or restaurant. This percentage was actually slightly higher than the 71% of all adults. 
This is backed up by the latest Ipsos poll. Nearly two-thirds (63%) of fully vaccinated adults said they had, in fact, eaten out in the last week compared with just 58% of unvaccinated adults. This represents a 10-point increase for fully vaccinated people eating out compared to a month ago (53%), while the percentage of unvaccinated adults going out to eat is up just 1 point from 57% in early May. 
But again, fully vaccinated Republicans are far more willing to venture out. Nearly three-quarters (74%) of fully vaccinated Republicans have eaten out in the last week, while a mere 54% of Democrats say they have. The partisan gap a month ago was basically the same. 
As we look ahead to summer, we see a similar movement of vaccinated people planning to be out more. Fully vaccinated adults (40%) have been more likely to book summer plans in the last week than unvaccinated adults (25%) in the Ipsos June data. Last month, vaccinated and unvaccinated adults were split 31% to 31% on whether they had made summer plans in the last week. 
Even in June, more fully vaccinated Republicans (45%) were more likely to make summer plans in the last week than fully vaccinated Democrats (34%). 
Unfortunately, it seems that no matter what part of the pandemic we're talking about (getting a vaccine, making plans, etc.) that partisanship, not just science, is a dominant factor.
