Trump, himself an 
unrelenting
 pusher of those lies, announced Tuesday that he had hired former Republican National Committee spokeswoman Liz Harrington to replace 
departing spokesman Jason Miller
.
Harrington said in a Tuesday 
statement
 that it is the honor of her life to represent Trump "and to stand for the truth." But she has been repeatedly and egregiously untruthful about what happened in the election in which Trump was defeated by Joe Biden -- falsely declaring over and over that 
Trump was the legitimate winner
 and that the election was 
stolen
 from him. 
On the day of the Capitol insurrection in January, Harrington falsely 
insisted 
that the election was being stolen by "communists." And less than a week after the insurrection, she falsely 
claimed
 that "the real insurrection" occurred during "vote dumps" the morning after Election Day. 
Asked for comment for this article, Harrington responded Wednesday by denouncing CNN and arguing again that the election was marred by "numerous anomalies."
November nonsense
Harrington made numerous false claims about the election while working for the RNC in November.
"President Trump won this election," Harrington falsely declared in a California television 
interview
 on November 8 -- the day after television networks projected that Biden had won. 
In the same interview, Harrington baselessly insisted that Biden could not have earned 81 million "real votes" because he had small crowds at his campaign events. (A candidate's crowd sizes d
o not necessarily predict
 their vote totals even when a pandemic is not occurring, and Biden's campaign team shrunk his events for the purpose of
 social distancing
.) And Harrington baselessly suggested it was suspicious that Biden won states in which Trump had early leads in the public vote totals, though Trump had those illusory leads only because many of the votes had not yet been counted.
Harrington was even more inaccurate in a Texas 
radio interview
 on November 11, this time declaring that counting every "legal vote" would show that Trump not only won the election but won in "a landslide." She also said there was evidence of "systemic" fraud, though that was not true then and is not true now.
Harrington's Twitter posts were no more factual than her comments out loud. On November 10, Harrington posted a series of tweets in which she made a 
nonsensical argument
 that Biden getting more votes in some staunchly Democratic urban counties than Hillary Clinton did in 2016 was itself suggestive of fraud. Increased voter participation is, obviously, not evidence that something nefarious occurred -- and turnout was up around the country, not just in Democratic strongholds. 
Harrington has 
sometimes
 made the debatable argument that state elections officials made unconstitutional pandemic-era changes to their policies; in her Wednesday statement to CNN, she repeated her argument that secretaries of state had acted unconstitutionally. But from November onward, many of her assertions about what happened in particular places Trump lost have been objectively untrue. 
She has falsely 
claimed
, among other things, that Georgia counted tens of thousands of votes from underage voters and that Philadelphia blocked Trump poll watchers to "
stuff the ballot box
." 
More lies in 2021
Harrington, like Trump, did not stop lying about the election even after the Electoral College 
affirmed Biden's victory
 and the Supreme Court 
rejected
 a challenge that sought to overturn the result. On December 24, after both of those developments, she 
tweeted
 simply and wrongly: "TRUMP WON." 
On January 3, after she left her RNC job in December, Harrington 
tweeted
 that "the fraud is OVERWHELMING" and favorably quoted a false Trump allegation about an election worker supposedly stuffing ballot boxes in Georgia.
On January 6, both 
before
 and 
after
 the Capitol insurrection, Harrington issued her warnings against allowing "communists" to "steal" the election. In a Newsmax interview that night, she falsely 
claimed
 that Pennsylvania had 200,000 more votes cast than actual voters, though that assertion, which came from Republican lawmakers who misinterpreted official data, had already been 
debunked
 by the state. 
The day after the insurrection, Harrington 
said
 on Newsmax that "equal justice under the law" means that people should be prosecuted not only "if you're storming the Capitol and destroying property" but "if you're destroying votes that were legally cast for our president" -- though there is no evidence that legal votes for Trump were destroyed. And on January 12, Harrington went on Newsmax again and 
said
 "the real insurrection" happened in the early hours of the morning the day after Election Day, when she said the "vote dumps" occurred.
"That's when it happened. That was the overthrow," she said. 
The so-called "vote dumps" were, simply, large quantities of newly counted votes being added to the public totals as normal. 
On the day of Biden's inauguration, Harrington went on Newsmax once more and 
said
, "There's no way he got 81 million votes. It's a fraud." She called Biden "an illegitimate person, a fake candidate." 
Harrington went to work for 
former Trump official Steve Bannon's "War Room"
 media operation after leaving the RNC. She showed no sign of changing her tune after changing jobs, 
continuing
 into the spring to call the election 
stolen
. 
