The last of their moving trucks departed the now-vacant property in the Kalorama neighborhood of DC Thursday. Trump's and Kushner's items are scheduled to be delivered to Miami, said a source with information on where the trucks were headed.
The Wall Street Journal 
was first to report the Trump-Kushner Miami rental.
CNN reached out to a representative for Ivanka Trump and has not immediately received a response.
Rents at The Arte, which is noted for its triangular shape, hover in the $40,000-per-month range and units typically sell for between $7 and 15 million. 
The condo puts the family closer to the lot of land they purchased last month for $32 million 
on exclusive Indian Creek Island
, also in the Miami area. The source familiar with the couple's move told CNN the family intends to use the condo as they develop and build what they are for now intending to be a more permanent home at Indian Creek. 
"(Indian Creek Island) is one of Miami's most private and sought after neighborhoods, frequented by high net-worth individuals seeking privacy," said Dora Puig, who has during her career sold more than $3 billion worth of real estate and is the owner of a luxury boutique brokerage in the area. (Puig was not involved in the sale or purchase of the Trump-Kushner transaction.)
Puig said the extreme security measures at Indian Creek enjoyed by residents is one of the main reasons wealthy people are willing to pay into the tens of millions for a piece of land and views of the water surrounding it, waters monitored around the clock by armed private security.
Before leaving office, former President Donald Trump 
signed a memorandum
 extending US Secret Service protection by six months for all his children, according to a senior US official. 
Mar-a-Lago, which is about an hour's drive from Indian Creek, is not a viable option for the Trump-Kushners to set permanent roots, mainly because it is a club with paying members and very little in the way of privacy -- perfect environs for her attention-loving father.
CNN has reported on 
Ivanka Trump's desire
 to perhaps run for political office in Florida. Trump had a taste of what the state might hold for her politically during her many campaign stops there last fall to stump for her father; she visited Florida multiple times in the run-up to the presidential election, drawing capacity audiences at events as well as raising millions of dollars at fundraisers.
Trump and Kushner, their three young children and two live-in nannies resided in the Kalorama rental during their tenure working as senior advisers in the White House.
