Banned from Twitter
 since early January, Trump has communicated his post-presidency musings in written statements that are emailed to journalists and 
posted on his website
. These missives, many of which were initially featured on his 
now-shuttered blog
, have replaced his tweets as the most comprehensive public record of his day-to-day thinking.
And after crunching the numbers, what's clear is that Trump's primary focus is the election he lost.
Forty-three of the 132 post-presidency statements Trump had issued through June 9 included a lie about the election. That's about 33%. These lies range from vague claims that the election was "
stolen
" and "
rigged
" to 
specific
 
false assertions
 about what happened in various 
states he lost
. 
Trump's second-favorite post-presidency topic has been bashing fellow Republicans. About 24% percent of Trump's post-presidency statements have castigated other members of his party -- 
sometimes
 for 
failing to support
 his dishonest attempt to get the election overturned, 
other times
 for 
generally failing to be sufficiently loyal to him
.
Another 23% of Trump's post-presidency statements have been endorsements of Republican candidates. (These endorsements tend to be 
more formulaic and less personal
 than his other commentary.) About 15% of the statements have featured criticism of 
media outlets
 or 
social media companies
.
About 10% have involved
 criticism of President Joe Biden or Biden's administration
. About 10% have discussed 
economic subjects
. (We didn't include endorsement statements in which Trump passingly said that the candidate was good on the economy.) About 9% have involved Trump touting his own 
popularity
 or 
influence
. About 8% have involved 
criticism
 of specific Democrats other than Biden or of Democrats in general. And about 7% have involved 
praise
 of Trump's political allies.
What the numbers show
The numbers show just how frequently the former president is still -- a full seven months after his fair-and-square defeat -- promoting baseless nonsense that is 
destructive to American democracy
. And the numbers help explain why so many 
Republican politicians
 continue to utter and defend these lies themselves. If the de facto leader of the party is making them an ongoing priority, elected officials who 
feel the need to stay in his good graces
 are not abandoning them too fast, either.   
The numbers also corroborate what 
CNN reported last week
: people close to Trump say he is fixated on the election and less interested in the policy issues his advisers prefer him to discuss. Only a small percentage of the 132 statements addressed the 
Covid-19 pandemic
 (about 5%) or 
foreign policy or national security 
(about 2%). A meager 2% of the statements discussed immigration in any detail. And some of the 
references
 to the economy were 
delivered in the course of criticizing someone
 rather than as their standalone point of emphasis.
A note about the data: the percentages in this story do not add to 100% because we assigned each statement to multiple categories as appropriate. For example, 
this statement
 included an election lie, criticism of the media, and criticism of a Republican foe.
