"When will I be free ... of my brain injury? When will I be free and full again?" the officer said in a written statement read by prosecutors at a federal court hearing Friday.
The unnamed police officer's statement adds to a growing chorus of 
law enforcement victims
 
and their families
 calling for recognition of the severity of the attack by Trump supporters.
"On January 6, you and a group of others purposefully set out to break our police line," the officer said in the statement. "When you do that, when you set out with purpose in mind to hurt someone, it's not only an assault but a theft."
She added: "You stole months of me working alongside this country's most dedicated police officers. ... You've stolen my ability to be present."
RELATED: DC officer Fanone: This isn't the country I want to turn over to my children
 
This appears to be the first time prosecutors have used an extensive statement from an injured officer in court to capture the impact of the violence toward police that day. The Justice Department has charged more than 450 federal defendants related to the insurrection, during which rioters assaulted about 140 police officers.
According to prosecutors
, defendant Ryan Samsel pushed a metal barricade into the officer outside the Capitol near an intersection called the Peace Circle, causing her to fall and hit her head on stairs behind her and knocking her unconscious. 
The altercation was an early moment in the siege where Trump supporters were able to make it past one barricaded section of the grounds, according to court records. Samsel had been with leaders of the Proud Boys as they marched to the Capitol, prosecutors say.
Prosecutors say that Samsel picked the officer up off the ground and said, "We don't have to hurt you, why are you standing in our way?" 
The officer later had to be taken to a hospital and was diagnosed with having a concussion, court records say.
Samsel has not yet entered a plea in the case. Prosecutors have argued to keep him in jail in Washington, DC, partly because of a history of assault charges he's faced, including for violence toward women.
"I am asking Ryan Samsel not be released," the officer said in her statement. "No more women should have to fear injury at his hands."
April Russo, a prosecutor with the Justice Department, said in court Friday that the officer suffered "physical and psychological trauma," and has not returned to work.
If Samsel were to be released from federal custody, it would be to another jail, but at the state level. He is already on parole in Pennsylvania, and New Jersey had a warrant for his arrest on a 2019 assault accusation. Another hearing in the case is set for next week in DC federal court.
Full statement
Read the full statement, obtained by CNN:
"On January 6, you and a group of others purposely set out to break through our police line. You purposely came into the west front of the Capitol and you purposely knocked me down. When you do that, when you set out with a purpose in mind to injure another human being, you're not only committing assault, but you are a thief. You steal someone's ability to have control over their own body and lead a normal life.
"You have stolen moments away from me that I can't get back. You stole my ability to be with my fellow officers while mourning the loss of my friend, Sicknick, as I was not able to be fully mobile at that time. You stole months of me working alongside the country's most dedicated police officers, a job that I love and work hard at. You stole my ability to be present at important events due to the physical and psychological trauma that you imparted on me and my coworkers. And now you're asking to be set free.
"When will we be set free? When will we be set free of the memories and scars of that day? When will I be free and full again? Free of the fear that my brain injury will cause me embarrassment at the best of circumstances, and further injury at the worst. Because of this I am asking that Ryan Samsel not be released. No more women should have to fear injury at his hands."
Correction: This story has been updated to correct a line in the officer's statement to read: "When will I be free and full again?"
