"I take no joy in introducing this resolution, but any member who cites political violence and threatens our lives must be expelled," Gomez said Friday. "I believe some of my Republican colleagues, and one in particular, wish harmed upon this legislative body. I'm not saying this for shock value. It's the conclusion I drew after a member of Congress advocated violence against our peers, the speaker and our government."
Seventy-two Democrats have supported this resolution; zero Republicans.
Under the Constitution, the House of Representatives has the power to expel any member with a two-thirds vote, but it's not expected there would be the votes for that, especially among Republican members. Still, the support for the resolution does illustrate the rancor and divisiveness that has taken root in the House since the riots on January 6 and the storming of the Capitol.
In February, the House voted to remove Greene from her committee assignments, a decisive step that came in the wake of recently unearthed incendiary and violent past statements from the congresswoman that triggered widespread backlash from Democrats and divided congressional Republicans.
House Democrats, who control the chamber, set up the vote after first attempting to pressure Republicans to strip the Georgia Republican of committee assignments on their own. House Republicans did not take that action, however.
Greene defended herself ahead of the vote in a speech on the House floor and attempted to distance herself from the dangerous and debunked QAnon conspiracy theory, which she has previously embraced.
Outrage over Greene grew more intense in Congress in the wake of a report from 
CNN's KFile that she repeatedly indicated support for executing prominent Democratic politicians 
in 2018 and 2019 before being elected to Congress.
The Georgia Republican has also faced backlash over recently resurfaced comments about the 2018 
Parkland school shooting
.
In a statement to CNN, Greene said "House Democrats have declared war on House Republican Women," adding that "Democrats are trying overturn the will of the People who voted for both myself and Congresswoman Miller-Meeks." 
Here are the 72 Democrats who support the resolution:
Jake Auchincloss, Joyce Beatty, Earl Blumenauer, Jamaal Bowman, Brendan Boyle, Tony Cárdenas, André Carson, Matt Cartwright, Kathy Castor, Joaquin Castro, Judy Chu, Yvette Clarke, Steve Cohen, Gerald E. Connolly, Jim Cooper, Lou Correa, Jason Crow, Rosa L. DeLauro, Mark DeSaulnier, Ted Deutch, Veronica Escobar, Anna G. Eshoo, Adriano Espaillat, Dwight Evans, Bill Foster, Ruben Gallego, Jesús G. "Chuy" García, Raúl M. Grijalva, Alcee L. Hastings, Jahana Hayes, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Jared Huffman, Pramila Jayapal, Mondaire Jones, Robin Kelly, Ro Khanna, Ann McLane Kuster, John B. Larson, Barbara Lee, Alan Lowenthal, A. Donald McEachin, Jerry McNerney, Grace Meng, Seth Moulton, Grace F. Napolitano, Marie Newman, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Bill Pascrell, Jr., Donald M. Payne, Jr., Scott Peters, Ayanna Pressley, Kathleen M. Rice, Jan Schakowsky, Albio Sires, Adam Smith, Darren Soto, Marilyn Strickland, Eric Swalwell, Dina Titus, Rashida Tlaib, Ritchie Torres, Lori Trahan, David Trone, Juan Vargas, Nydia M. Velázquez, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Maxine Waters, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Susan Wild, Nikema Williams, Frederica S. Wilson.
