The change did not go unnoticed -- it was shared widely on Twitter, including by LGBTQ civil rights organization 
Equality California
 which wrote, "In this @WhiteHouse we respect pronouns."
GLAAD
, an LGBTQ media advocacy organization, also shared the news on Twitter. 
"On Day One, the Biden administration has taken immediate steps to include trans, nonbinary, and gender nonconforming people in the conversation," GLAAD President and CEO Sarah Kate Ellis 
said in a statement.
 "Pronouns matter, and adding inclusive pronouns to a contact form is more than just a demonstration of allyship." 
"Research has shown that recognition and respect of our pronouns can make all the difference for our health and wellbeing -- especially when it comes to LGBTQ youth," Ellis added. 
The site now also includes a Spanish language version of the White House's communications -- a page that went dark when Donald Trump took office. The relaunch came the same day President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris took the oath of office. Harris is now the first female, first Black and first South Asian vice president. 
"President Biden and Vice President Harris are proud be building an administration that reflects the diversity of our country and is inclusive of all Americans, and the White House is proud to be welcoming of all people regardless of their gender identity," White House spokesman Matt Hill said.
Biden has vowed to be a champion for inclusivity -- and his picks for the country's top leaders could make
 history, if confirmed, for the most diverse presidential Cabinet. 
A CNN analysis found 50% of Biden's nominees 
for Cabinet positions and Cabinet-level positions are people of color -- more than former President Barack Obama's, who held the previous record for diversity with a Cabinet that was 42% people of color. 
Among them is California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, who would be the first 
Latino to lead the Department of Health and Human Services 
and former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who would be the
 first out LGBTQ Cabinet secretary to be approved by the Senate. 
And earlier this week, Biden nominated Dr. Rachel Levine to serve as assistant health secretary. Levine 
would make history as the first out, transgender federal official
 to be confirmed. 
"Dr. Rachel Levine will bring the steady leadership and essential expertise we need to get people through this pandemic -- no matter their zip code, race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability -- and meet the public health needs of our country in this critical moment and beyond," Biden said in a statement about the pick. 
