Harris did not interact with Hostin or Navarro before the show, according to a White House official. Harris went on to conduct the interview from a remote location after a delay. 
Hostin and Navarro subsequently tested negative for Covid-19 twice on Friday, according to two sources familiar with the matter. 
Both Hostin and Navarro tested negative on a rapid test and then negative on a PCR test, the sources added. The two are now awaiting the results of a second PCR test, the sources said.
A representative for "The View" did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 
The initial positive results were announced by "The View" host Joy Behar during the show after Hostin and Navarro were asked to leave the set. Hostin and Navarro were seated at the table with the other hosts at the beginning of the program. 
The tables were cleaned and disinfected after they left the set, Behar said, who continued hosting the show on set with her co-host Sara Haines. Behar said Hostin and Navarro were both fully vaccinated. 
Harris has received two doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine and was administered both shots live on camera.
"I hope that you're in a safe spot right now. We did everything we could to make sure that you were safe because we value you so much," Behar told Harris at the start of their interview. 
Harris responded: "Thank you, Joy, and to everyone. Listen, Sunny and Ana are strong women and I know they're fine but it really also does speak to the fact that they're vaccinated and vaccines really do make all the difference. Because otherwise, we would be concerned about hospitalization or worse."
CNN reported last month
 that data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows more than 99.99% of people fully vaccinated against Covid-19 have not had a breakthrough case resulting in hospitalization or death. 
Harris called on Americans to get vaccinated and be responsible. 
"I've been watching, like many of you, with heartache, with the videos of people who are in an ICU bed, who did not get vaccinated, pleading with their family members, 'please get vaccinated,'" Harris said. 
She continued: "You know, when I think of it in the context of any one of us who have had these awful experiences of holding the hands of a loved one who is in an ICU bed, or is near death -- like, don't put your families through that. The vaccine is free. It is safe, and it will save your life. So folks just need to get vaccinated."
This story has been updated with additional information. 
