
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The woman who 
accused
 New York Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 of 
groping her at the Executive Mansion
 last year said she is willing to take a polygraph test, according to a report. 
Legal representative for the alleged victim, Brian Premo, on Friday told local news outlet 
Times Union
 that his client had agreed to take a lie detector test.
Premo said she told him &#34;the day we met…that she would take a polygraph test — without hesitation.&#34; 
CUOMO SEXUALLY HARASSED MULTIPLE WOMEN IN VIOLATION OF STATE AND FEDERAL LAW, NY AG FINDS
His client also allegedly suggested she would like to see Cuomo undergo a polygraph examination.
Fox News could not immediately reach the governor for comment on whether he would agree to take the lie detector test. 
Cuomo has previously claimed that a polygraph test provides validation in a &#34;he said, she said&#34; scenario.  
During the confirmation hearings of Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court in 2018, Cuomo said he believed the Trump appointee should take a polygraph test after he was accused of sexual assault. 
The New York governor said Kavanaugh’s refusal to do so &#34;seriously damages his credibility.&#34;
&#34;Why won&#39;t he take a polygraph? Dr. Ford did,&#34; Cuomo said in reference to his accuser Christine Blasey Ford. &#34;If he does not take the polygraph test, it is the ultimate ‘he said, she said.&#34;
CUOMO ACCUSER CALLS FOR DISBARMENT OF LAWYER WHO HANDLED HARASSMENT COMPLAINT AFTER RESIGNATION ANNOUNCEMENT
&#34;It is the one powerful piece of evidence that seriously damages his credibility,&#34; Cuomo added. 
Cuomo’s alleged victim has wished to remain anonymous since first accusing the governor of sexually assaulting her.
The accuser said the governor reached his hand under her shirt and groped her breast over her bra. In an interview with the Times Union, she described being assaulted while trying to think how to best remove herself from the situation.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Earlier this year, Cuomo was hit with several accusations of sexual misconduct against at least nine female staffers. 
The governor has denied the accusations and refused to step down. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
