
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Reaction from &#39;Fox &amp;amp; Friends&#39; police panel: Suffolk County Sheriff Errol Toulon Jr., Blue Lives Matter New York City founder Joseph Imperatrice and former NYPD Lieutenant Darrin Porcher.
A 
New York
 lawmaker is proposing 
legislation
 that would ban the use or possession of bulletproof vests by most 
law
-abiding citizens.
Assemblyman Jonathan G. Jacobson, a Democrat, introduced 
the bill
, A. 353, earlier this month to amend an existing law that bans use of body armor by criminals committing a felony with a firearm.
His bill would require New York residents to turn over their bulletproof vests to police, who are exempt from the legislation, within 15 days after the law takes effect, The Free Beacon first 
reported.
 Others whose jobs have been determined to require body armor by the Department of State would also be exempt.

      Journalist wears bulletproof vest. (iStock)
      
The Firearms Policy Coalition is campaigning against the bill.
NEW YORK AG LETITIA JAMES TO SUE FOR FEDERAL OVERSIGHT OF NYPD OVER PROTEST RESPONSE
&#34;A. 352 deprives New Yorkers of their right to passive defense by instituting a confiscatory ban on body armor,&#34; the group wrote in a statement posted to its website. &#34;A. 352 criminalizes the purchase and possession of body vests, which New York law defines as soft body armor that provides wearers with Level I or greater protection (the lowest common rating for body armor) intended to stop low kinetic energy rounds such as a .380.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Jacobson&#39;s bill would also make buying or owning a bulletproof vest &#34;a class A misdemeanor for a first offense and a class E felony for each subsequent offense,&#34; which the coalition noted could result in a four-year prison sentence.
The New York assemblyman did not immediately respond to an inquiry from Fox News. 
Journalists often wear bulletproof vests when reporting on-scene during events that have the potential to escalate into dangerous situations, as the Free Beacon noted, such as the 
riots
 that occurred in major cities across the U.S. over the summer after George Floyd&#39;s May 25 death. 
ANTIFA MARCHES THROUGH NYC AS FEARS OF POLITICAL VIOLENCE HEIGHTEN
Paramedics, store owners, bank employees, volunteers and others also wear body vests for enhanced protection, 
according to
 vest seller BulletSafe.
The number of shootings in New York City 
soared
 97% from 777 in 2019 to 1,531 in 2020, and murders jumped by 44% from 319 to 462, the New York Police Department found.
NYC&#39;S 2020 SHOOTING SURGE REACHES &#39;LEVELS UNSEEN IN YEARS,&#39; POLICE SAY
The NYPD said it made 
arrests
 in about a third – 32% – of the shooting incidents, according to the release. NYPD detectives cleared 54% of homicides that occurred within calendar 2020. 
Violent crime rates in other major cities across New York state including 
Albany
, 
Rochester
 and 
Buffalo
 increased in 2020, according to local reports.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
