
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Vice President 
Kamala Harris
 is facing criticism for appearing to break with precedent and failing to salute the honor guard when boarding Air Force Two.
Video reviewed by Fox News showed that her predecessors, former Vice President Mike Pence and President Biden, regularly saluted the honor guard in the same situation.
KAMALA HARRIS&#39; LAUGHING ANSWER TO BORDER QUESTION SPARKS BACKLASH
Conservatives, including Turning Point USA&#39;s 
Charlie Kirk
 and former NYPD Commissioner Bernard Kerik, slammed Harris after a video of her walking past the honor guard picked up steam on social media. 
&#34;DISGRACEFUL: @VP Kamala Harris refuses to salute the honor guard at the steps of the aircraft. It is a clear demonstration of her dislike for those in uniform, both law-enforcement and military,&#34; Kerik wrote on 
Twitter
.
Video reviewed by Fox News showed that Harris did not salute the honor guard on 
Monday
 nor during earlier trips on 
March 15
 and 
16
. She did not appear to salute when 
disembarking
 Air Force One with Biden on March 19 either.
Recent vice presidents have maintained the practice of saluting the honor guard while entering and exiting Air Force Two.
Former Vice President Mike Pence can be seen saluting the honor guard members while deplaning during stops in 
Utah
 and 
Georgia
 last year.  
Video from Biden&#39;s two terms as vice president show him saluting members of the U.S. military as he exits Air Force Two, including during a 
2013 trip
 to Beijing.

      Vice President Joe Biden salutes as he leaves the USS Gettysburg after welcoming home sailors at Mayport Naval Base, Fla, Dec. 8, 2011. (Official White House Photo by David Lienemann)
      
(Official White House Photo by David Lienemann)
The tradition of saluting the honor guard outside Air Force One began with former President Ronald Reagan, who served in the Army, according to 
The Florida Times-Union
.
&#34;I know all the rules about not saluting in civilian clothes and so forth, and when you should or shouldn’t,&#34; Reagan said according to The Florida Times-Union. &#34;So, I said to the commandant, I said, ‘Look, I know all the rules about saluting in civilian clothes and all, but if I am the commander in chief, there ought to be a regulation that would permit me to return a salute.’ And I heard some words of wisdom. He said, ‘I think if you did, no one would say anything.’&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Fox News&#39; inquiry to the White House was not returned at the time of publication.
Fox News&#39; Cameron Cawthorne contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
