
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
In media news today, FiveThirtyEight sounds the alarm on Biden&#39;s polling, an MSNBC panel claims public school protestors are influenced by &#39;White Supremacist ideology&#39; and CNN&#39;s Brianna Keilar lectures Nikki Haley on racism in America
Police in 
Washington, D.C.
 say that a woman has been killed after being shot in the head while sitting in a gym parking lot and the suspect is on the loose.
Metropolitan Police confirmed to Fox News that a man walked up to a woman sitting in her car at a Planet Fitness in the city’s Southeast neighborhood on Thursday morning and shot her in the head before fleeing. The police department says a statement on the woman being pronounced dead is forthcoming.
BRAZEN DC SHOOTING IS LATEST IN CAPITAL AS RISING CRIME THREATENS US CITIES
Police also confirmed to Fox News the suspect is on the loose.
&#34;Shooting Investigation in the 3200 block of Pennsylvania Avenue, SE,&#34; the police department posted on Twitter. &#34;No Lookout.&#34;
DC TRIPLE SHOOTING LEAVES 1 DEAD, 2 WOUNDED AMID CITY&#39;S CRIME WAVE
The incident marks the continuation of a string of brazen shootings that have rocked the nation’s capital and contributed to an overall rise in violent crime.
Washington has been experiencing a crime wave that has sparked outrage from many residents and police 
say
 they are understaffed. 
Mayor Muriel Bowser announced earlier this summer that she plans to add 170 police officers to the city’s force amid rising violence and several high profile shootings in the city. 
&#34;Right now, I have directed MPD to use any overtime necessary to meet our public safety demands,&#34; the Democratic mayor wrote in a statement. The statement noted that Bowser plans to hire 170 additional Metropolitan Police Department officers by 2022. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;But we know that is not a complete solution or the right long-term solution. We also know we need all of our officers to be fresh, rested, and in the best position to make good decisions – and that requires having a full force to meet all of our community’s needs.&#34;
Last year, the city council 
voted
 to defund the police department by shifting $23 million out of its budget in a move that Bowser publicly opposed. 
Homicides in the city hit a 16-year high in 2020 and local media outlets 
reported
 in April of this year that 2021 was on track to be even deadlier. Earlier this month, gunfire broke out near the Washington Nationals baseball stadium causing players and fans to flee the area in a 
chaotic scene
 that drew national attention. 
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
