
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
CHICAGO (AP) – 
Former U.S. Sen. Adlai Stevenson III of 
Illinois
 has died at his home on 
Chicago&#39;s
 North Side. He was 90.
His son Adlai Stevenson IV, who confirmed the Illinois Democrat died on Monday, said his father had dementia.
Before his health declined, Stevenson kept active organizing presentations and speakers for the Adlai Stevenson Center on Democracy in Libertyville, Illinois. He also worked on the family farm in Hanover, Illinois, raising cattle, growing corn and hay for their feed, and chopping wood.
&#34;He just faded away,&#34; his son said.
EX-HOUSE CANDIDATE, AN AFGHANISTAN VETERAN, FUOND DEAD IN CEMETERY
Stevenson ran for governor of Illinois twice, losing his 1982 run by just 5,074 votes to Republican Gov. Jim Thompson. It is the closest Illinois election for governor in modern state history.
Stevenson was the great grandson of former Vice President Adlai Stevenson. His father, Adlai Stevenson II, was a former Illinois governor and two-time presidential candidate.

      FILE - In this Oct. 14, 1982, file photo, Illinois Democratic gubernatorial candidate Adlai Stevenson III, left, talks with Sen. Edward Kennedy, right, talk as they finish a series of appearances in Chicago. Stevenson III, of Illinois, has died at his home on Chicago’s North Side. He was 90. On Tuesday, Sept. 7, 2021, his son Adlai Stevenson IV confirmed the Democrat’s death and said his father had dementia. (AP Photo/File)
      
When running for the Senate, where he was first elected in 1970 to serve out the remainder of the late Sen. Everett Dirksen&#39;s term, Stevenson asked then-Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley for advice.
&#34;My advice to you is don&#39;t change your name,&#34; Daley told him, the Chicago Sun-Times reported.
1960s CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST ROBERT MOSES HAS DIED
Stevenson was reelected in 1974, but decided not to run again in 1980. He stepped aside in January 1981 for fellow Democrat Alan Dixon, who won the November election.
Stevenson III graduated from Milton Academy, Harvard College and Harvard Law School. He served with the Marine Corps in Korea and was discharged as a captain from the Marine Reserves in 1961.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Stevenson is survived by his wife, Nancy; two sons, Adlai IV and Warwick; two brothers, John and Borden; and nine grandchildren.
Information on services was not immediately available.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
