
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach joins &#39;The Ingraham Angle&#39; to discuss the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021.
The federal government doled out $783.5 million for 
incarcerated
 individuals as part of the American Rescue Plan, Fox News has learned. 
In response to a public records request from conservative group American Crossroads, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) revealed that the money flowed to 560,000 individuals who were incarcerated for the full tax year 2020.
Passed in March, the American Rescue Plan granted $1,400 in stimulus money to people making less than $75,000 per year.
&#34;Earlier this year, every single Senate Democrat voted to give stimulus checks to violent criminals in prison,&#34; Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., said in a statement to Fox News. 
&#34;Sending cash to murderers and rapists in prison has nothing to do with solving the pandemic or improving the economy. Now, the same people who sent hundreds of millions of dollars as gifts to these inmates want to spend trillions more in an even bigger and more partisan bill.&#34; 
Sens. Cotton and Bill Cassidy, R-La., attempted to exclude prisoners in March but that amendment failed on a party-line vote. 
COVID RELIEF BILL OFFERS CONVICTED MURDERERS STIMULUS CHECKS, COTTON SLAMS
The $1,400 payout was in addition to $1,200 and $600 checks offered as part of the previous 
coronavirus
 relief legislation. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., criticized the measure, saying it would harm Black and Brown families.
&#34;Given the stark racial disparities in our criminal justice system, this would cause the most harm to Black and brown families and communities already harmed by mass incarceration,&#34; he 
said
 from the Senate floor. &#34;Children should not be forced to go hungry because a parent is incarcerated.&#34;
Although the 
Trump
 administration 
attempted
 to block the initial payments from flowing to prisoners, those efforts were eventually halted by a federal judge who noted that the legislation itself didn&#39;t exclude prisoners.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The revelation comes amid news that convicted gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar, who abused 
Olympic
 athletes, received $2,000 from two federal stimulus checks.
Cotton previously warned that the checks would flow to murderers like Dylan Roof and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
