
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Co-founder of Celtic Group Kevin Walling and former Deputy Council of the RNC Alex Vogel discuss the rise in violent crime 
Liberal mega-donor George Soros has directed $1 million to an activist group attempting to defund the police as violent crime surges in major urban centers across the nation.
Soros sent the million dollars via his Color Of Change PAC on May 14, according to 
Federal Election Commission files
 obtained by the 
Washington Free Beacon
.
SOROS QUIETLY DROPS $200,000 BACKING ANOTHER FAR-LEFT PROSECUTOR IN VIRGINIA
The organization describes itself as &#34;the nation’s largest online racial justice organization&#34; and actively engages in efforts to defund police departments such as spreading an 
online petition
 calling for &#34;divesting from and dismantling the systems that unjustly harm Black people.&#34; 
The group also backed a push by the Milwaukee City Council to defund the police.
&#34;Policing is a violent institution that must end,&#34; the group’s president wrote in a statement supporting the move. &#34;We imagine a country where there is enough money to educate our children, care for our sick and feed those who are financially unstable. Defunding the police allows for this vision.&#34;
Violent crime has 
surged dramatically
 in many large cities across the United States this year, including in areas where Soros has spent large sums of money electing Democratic candidates who have promised to ease sentencing requirements and implement relaxed bail reform laws. 
TUCKER CARLSON: GEORGE SOROS, GEORGE GASCÓN AND THE FALL OF LOS ANGELES
In 2018, Soros 
spent millions of dollars
 to help elect current Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascon who promised to implement sentencing reforms and decriminalize certain illegal activities. In 2021, the Los Angeles City Council 
redirected
 funds from the LAPD to social outreach organizations.
This year in Los Angeles, 
murders are up 20%
 and violent crime has spiked which has contributed to a rampant homeless crisis that many argue Gascon’s policies 
have made worse
.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Philadelphia, where Soros spent 
almost $2 million
 electing District Attorney Larry Krasner, currently has the 
highest murder rate per capita among the 10 largest cities in the country
 and homicides have risen 35% this year. 
&#34;When George Soros funded scores of elections for 
prosecutors
 who have 
no intention
 of 
prosecuting criminals
 and every intention of prosecuting police officers, he knew exactly what he was doing,&#34; host of Fox News&#39; 
Life, Liberty and Levin
 Mark Levin 
said 
about Soros last year. &#34;He was funding a counter-revolution in the U.S.&#34;
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
