
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributor Joe Concha reacts to NBC fact-checking Dr. Anthony Fauci&#39;s COVID-19 super-spreader prediction for football season.
The Food and Drug Administration is planning to approve allowing Americans to receive a different 
COVID-19
 vaccine for booster shots than the vaccine originally taken, according to the 
New York Times
.
State health officials have come under increased pressure to authorize a &#34;mix and match&#34; approach after President Biden announced a nationwide booster campaign in August, raising fears that supplies of certain vaccines could run low in some areas.
&#34;The No. 1 thing I heard from state health secretaries was the need for permissive language around a mix-and-match approach,&#34;
 said Dr. Nirav D. Shah
, president of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials.

      FILE - In this Thursday, Jan. 23, 2020, file photo, a patient receives an influenza vaccine in Mesquite, Texas. Amid all the focus on COVID-19 vaccinations, U.S. health experts have another plea: Don’t skip your flu shot.  With U.S. schools and businesses reopened, international travel resuming and far less masking this fall, flu is likely to make a comeback. 
      
BIDENS CAUGHT VIOLATING DC MASK MANDATE AT POSH GEORGETOWN RESTAURANT
&#34;From a public health perspective, there’s a clear need in some situations for individuals to receive a different vaccine,&#34; said Dr. Amanda Cohn, a high-ranking official at the Centers for Disease control and prevention.
The FDA in September 
approved a Pfizer booster shot
 for those over 65 years old and other high-risk individuals, while the same type of guidance was approved last week for the Moderna vaccine. The Johnson &amp; Johnson vaccine, which unlike Moderna and Pfizer only required one initial dose, has also been approved for a vaccine booster shot.
The news comes as 
Dr. Anthony Fauci
 on Sunday signaled his belief that the Johnson &amp; Johnson vaccine should have been 
given in two
 
doses
, similar to the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines.

      Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, responds to questions by Senator Rand Paul during the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC on July 20, 2021. 
      
(Photo by J. Scott Applewhite / POOL / AFP) (Photo by J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/POOL/AFP via Getty Images)
&#34;What the advisers to the FDA felt is that, given the data that they saw, very likely this should have been a two-dose vaccine to begin with,&#34; Fauci said during an appearance on ABC&#39;s &#34;This Week.&#34;

      President Joe Biden speaks during a visit to the Lehigh Valley operations facility for Mack Trucks in Macungie, Pa., Wednesday, July 28, 2021. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke)
      
(AP Photo/Matt Rourke)
Fauci also supported the idea of mixing and matching vaccines, saying those who had initially received the Johnson &amp; Johnson vaccine would likely have the flexibility to receive a Moderna of Pfizer booster shot.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Dr. Marcus Plescia, the chief medical officer for the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, agreed that health officials should have the flexibility to mix and match boosters.
Michael Lee is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@UAMichaelLee
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
