
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News White House correspondent Peter Doocy joins &#39;Your World&#39; with the latest from Washington.
Shortly after taking office in January, 
President Biden
 expressed confidence that increased 
vaccine
 access for Americans over the coming months will lead to herd immunity by summer. 
The comments came as the recently inaugurated president pledged to achieve 100 million 
COVID-19
 vaccinations in his first 100 days as president. 
When reporters asked the president when anyone who wants a vaccine might be able to get one, Biden said: &#34;I think we’ll be able to do that this spring.&#34; And looking forward, he added that &#34;I feel confident by summer we’ll be well on our way towards herd immunity and increasing access.&#34; 
&#34;Herd immunity&#34; means that enough people have immunity, either from vaccination or from a past infection, to stop the uncontrolled spread of a disease. However, herd immunity doesn’t make any one person immune, and outbreaks can still flare up. It simply means that a virus is no longer easily jumping from person to person, helping to protect those who are still vulnerable to catching it. 
CONGRESS EXEMPT FROM BIDEN&#39;S COVID-19 VACCINE MANDATE
Despite the president’s &#34;herd immunity&#34; predictions in January, COVID cases – fueled by the deadlier and more contagious delta variant of the virus – remain at all-time highs. 
According to a new study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), unvaccinated people face a far greater chance of death from the COVID delta variant. 
Over the past week, the U.S. has had an average of 136,000 COVID cases, 11,750 hospitalizations, and more than 1,000 days over the preceding seven-day period, 
Reuters reported
, citing CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Those latest figures came a day after President Biden issued a sweeping 
executive order
 mandating that all federal workers and contractors that do business with the federal government be vaccinated against COVID-19.
Fox News’ Paul Steinhauser and The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
