
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Kamala Harris
 became the first sitting vice president to march in a 
Pride
 event on Saturday as she and her husband, second gentlemen Douglas Emhoff, surprised the crowd with an appearance at the Capital Pride Walk and Rally in 
Washington, D.C.
 
&#34;We need to make sure that our transgender community and our youth are all protected,&#34; Harris told marchers of the LGBTQ movement while wearing a pink blazer and a white T-shirt that said, &#34;Love is love.&#34; 
&#34;We need, still, protections around employment and housing. There is still so much more work to do. And I know we are committed and we understand the importance of this movement and our roles of leadership in this ongoing movement. Happy Pride Day!&#34; she said to cheers.
The vice president stressed the importance of passing the Democrats’ 
Equality Act,
 which would ban discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, 
WRC
-TV reported. 

      Vice President Kamala Harris, left, and second gentleman Douglas Emhoff, center, attend the Capitol Pride Walk and Rally in Washington, D.C., on Saturday, June 12, 2021. (Getty Images)
      
Republicans and religious groups have widely opposed the bill, arguing the changes could infringe upon the religious beliefs of some citizens.
Opponents have also raised concerns about the bill&#39;s potential impact on women&#39;s sports. GOP critics argue that allowing transgender youth to participate in girls&#39; sports would be harmful to competition.
GOP SENATORS ASKING RELIGIOUS GROUPS TO HELP CRAFT EQUALITY ACT COMPROMISE, SOURCES SAY 
The bill passed through the House earlier this year but faces a tough hurdle in the more evenly split Senate – where Harris herself would cast the deciding vote, if necessary. The same bill passed through the House in 2019 but died in the Senate. 
&#34;The Equality Act purports to protect people experiencing same-sex attraction or gender discordance from unjust discrimination. Although this is a worthy purpose, the Equality Act does not serve it,&#34; the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops said in a 
statement
 
on its website. &#34;And instead of respecting differences in beliefs about marriage and sexuality, the Equality Act discriminates against people of faith precisely because of those beliefs. In the process, the Equality Act codifies the new ideology of ‘gender’ in federal law, dismissing sexual difference and falsely presenting ‘gender’ as only a social construct.&#34;

      Vice President Kamala Harris arrives to join marchers in the Capitol Pride Parade on June 12, 2021 in Washington, D.C. (Getty Images)
      
Harris also commemorated the anniversary of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Or
l
ando, Florida, on June 12, 2015, that left 49 people dead. 
&#34;Five years ago, 49 LGBTQ+ people and allies were enjoying an evening out at Pulse Nightclub,&#34; she tweeted. &#34;And then, in an instant, they were gone. Today, we remember those who died and their loved ones—and we recommit to building a world free from gun violence.&#34;
Harris has participated in other Pride events in the past, most recently in 2019. All in-person Pride celebrations were canceled in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic. 

      Then-presidential candidate U.S. Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., waves to the crowd as she rides in a car during the San Francisco Pride Parade on June 30, 2019. (Getty Images)
      
Some conservatives on social media were frustrated that Harris attended the march but still hasn’t visited the U.S.-Mexico border. 
&#34;Wtf is Kamala Harris doing at the Pride parade? Shouldn’t she be at the border?&#34; one person wrote. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;GOP: Kamala needs to go to the border right now! VP Kamala Harris: *grabs hubby and heads to the pride parade,&#34; another added. 
Harris was tapped by President Biden to study the root causes of the southern border crisis earlier this year but has yet to make a visit there. She did travel to Guatemala and Mexico last week, drawing criticism for seeming ill-prepared to answer some questions about the crisis and her reluctance to go to the border region. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
