
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., joined ‘America’s Newsroom’ to reflect on the bipartisan discussions.
Sen. 
Shelley Moore Capito
 said her two-hour meeting with 
President Biden
 and fellow 
Republican
 senators on 
coronavirus relief
 was &#34;productive&#34; and may lead to additional bipartisan discussions on other topics moving forward.
LIVE UPDATES: BIDEN MEETS WITH REPUBLICAN SENATORS ON CORONAVIRUS AID
Capito, R-W.Va., was one of 10 Senate Republicans who met with the president in the Oval Office Monday evening to discuss their relief proposal, which they said provides &#34;more targeted assistance&#34; than the administration’s plan. 
GOP SENATORS TO MEET BIDEN MONDAY ON CORONAVIRUS RELIEF AS DEMS READY TO PASS BILL WITHOUT REPUBLICAN SUPPORT
The senator joined 
Bill Hemmer
 and 
Dana Perino
 on &#34;
America’s Newsroom
&#34; on Tuesday to share her reflections on the meeting.
SEN. SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO: It was a productive meeting. 
We feel very strongly that we need to have voices at the table that talk about our common areas, but also let&#39;s pull the extraneous things out of this bill and try to keep it within a guideline of targeted relief.
[Biden] was open to the suggestions of targeting individual checks to folks in the lower-income, and lower- and mid-income area.
We did try to impress upon the president that we thought the quicker way to get this would be through a bipartisan package of common, where we have common, areas. And I think he was amenable to listening to that.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
I think it starts a conversation with us that I think will carry through into other things. And for that, I feel really good. I do think that we need to work on this COVID together, bipartisan as we have in the past. Let&#39;s hope that that meeting last night had an impression on him and them.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
