
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich raise red flags over border crisis, ask DOJ to enforce existing immigration laws
The 
United States
 is helping Tajikistan secure a portion of its border with 
Afghanistan
 to help combat security threats in the region since the U.S. 
troop
 withdrawal from Kabul Monday, despite the ongoing crisis at the U.S. 
border
 that’s seeing thousands of migrants pour into the country every day.
The U.S. Embassy in Dushanbe has launched a project to construct new facilities for a Border Service detachment along the Tajik-Afghan-Uzbek border, allowing Tajikistan’s border troops to deploy more quickly in response to 
threats
 in the region, the embassy said in a 
press release
 Wednesday.  
BORDER STATES&#39; AGS WARN BIDEN AS BORDER CRISIS WORSENS
&#34;The United States and Tajikistan enjoy strong security cooperation, and this border detachment project is just another example of our shared commitment to the security and sovereignty of Tajikistan and Central Asia,&#34; Ambassador John Pommersheim said in a statement. 
The project is scheduled to break ground in early 2022. When completed, the new facility will provide housing for Tajikistan’s border troops and their family members, the release said.
The U.S. government has provided over $300 million in border-related security assistance to Tajikistan since 2002, the release added.
Meanwhile, the U.S. is facing a border crisis of its own. A group of 26 Republican 
senators
, led by Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas, issued a letter Thursday demanding 
President Biden
 explain the vetting process for the thousands of evacuees being admitted into the U.S. since the military withdrawal from Afghanistan.
&#34;What steps did your administration take to verify the identities of these individuals before evacuation?&#34; the senators asked in the letter. &#34;What steps are your administration taking to ensure that individuals are thoroughly vetted and their identities verified before entering the United States?&#34;
PSAKI CLAIMS &#39;NO ONE&#39; IS ENTERING US WITHOUT BEING VETTED
Rep. Tom Tiffany, R-Wis., said during a Fox News appearance Monday that he witnessed insufficient security during his recent trip to Fort McCoy, an Army installation in central Wisconsin that 
currently houses
 thousands of Afghan refugees. 
The congressman said he was stunned to find that none of the refugees he encountered were Special Immigrant Visa applicants, who have to go through a thorough vetting process that can take up to two years.
&#34;They were all there on parole,&#34; Tiffany said. &#34;The parole authority is granted to the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. He can just wave people in.&#34;
At the U.S. southern border, hundreds of thousands of migrants continue to pour into the country every month. 
Homeland Security 
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas 
announced in mid-August 
that 212,672 migrants were encountered at the southern border in July, a 13% increase over the already massive 188,000 migrant encounters in June. In July 2020, there were just 40,929 encounters.
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich raised red flags over terrorism concerns at the southern border 
during an appearance on Fox News
 Thursday, calling on the Biden administration to enforce existing immigration laws.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Make no doubt about it, people that mean America harm are crossing the southern border,&#34; Brnovich said.
Brnovich is leading a coalition of 16 states to stop the administration’s so-called &#34;Interim Guidance,&#34; which they argue &#34;dramatically halts nearly all deportations and immigration-related arrests, including for those convicted of dangerous aggravated felonies,&#34; a 
press release
 said Tuesday.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
