
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sen. John Kennedy, R-La. reacts to the ongoing presence of troops in the nation&#39;s capitol on &#39;Tucker Carlson Tonight&#39;
Rep. Michael Waltz, R-Fla., on Tuesday spoke with acting Army Secretary John Whitley and said more details are required about the specific threats that require a 
continued National Guard presence on Capitol Hill.
The Guard has been in place in the wake of the Jan. 6 riots and is expected to remain in place into March.
GOP LAWMAKERS REQUEST BRIEFING ON CONTINUED NATIONAL GUARD PRESENCE AT CAPITOL 
&#34;I appreciate the call from Secretary Whitley and believe the Army must push Congress and the FBI for more clarity as what specific threat requires the Army to have a larger presence on Capitol Hill than we have in Afghanistan and Iraq combined,&#34; he said in a statement. 
&#34;In the past year, COVID-19, social unrest, natural disasters and war zone requirements have repeatedly pulled the Guard from their jobs and families, causing tremendous stress on the force,&#34; he said. &#34;Lawmakers continue to be left in the dark on actual threat assessments and a long-term strategy. I hope we will have a briefing for lawmakers scheduled in the near future.&#34;
An Army spokesperson told Fox News that Whitley had nothing further to add, &#34;however Mr. Whitley continues to be incredibly proud of the National Guard Airmen and Soldiers who are serving in support of local and federal law enforcement activities.&#34;
&#34;The mission shows the breadth, flexibility, and resolve of the National Guard&#39;s sacrifices and service to this nation,&#34; the spokesperson said.
Waltz was one of 12 lawmakers
 who wrote to the Pentagon requesting a briefing on the continued National Guard presence, amid reports that it will keep a presence of at least 5,000 troops into March.
A National Guard spokesman 
confirmed to Fox News
 last month that there were plans to keep National Guard members in the Capitol through mid-March.
&#34;As we continue to work to meet the final post-inauguration requirements, the National Guard has been requested to continue supporting federal law enforcement agencies with 7,000 members and will draw down to 5,000 through mid-March,&#34; National Guard Bureau spokesman Wayne Hall said.
DC NATIONAL GUARD DEPLOYMENT IN NATION&#39;S CAPITAL EXTENDED THROUGH END OF MARCH
&#34;We are providing assistance such as security, communications, medical evacuation, logistics and safety support to state, district and federal agencies.&#34;
Roughly 13,000 guardsmen still remain in D.C. supporting federal agencies with security efforts. The D.C. National Guard will remain on orders until March 31, a spokesperson said.
Asked about the presence on Tuesday, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said he didn’t want to get into specific threats but that the department considers it a &#34;valid requirement&#34; based on requests for support.
This means the National Guard will be in place for the impeachment trial of President Donald Trump, which is scheduled to begin on Feb. 9. Politico 
reported
 there is concern over March 4 – the date some QAnon members believe Trump will be inaugurated for the second time.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The initial deployment came amid fears that there could be a repeat of the Jan. 6 violence during Inauguration Day.
There has also been controversy over the treatment of troops at the Capitol. Govs. Ron DeSantis of Florida, Chris Sununu of New Hampshire, Greg Gianforte of Montana, and Greg Abbott of Texas moved to bring their National Guard troops home after 
reports they were sent
 to a parking garage to rest during their shifts.
Fox News&#39; Lucas Tomlinson and Brooke Singman contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
