
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox Nation Tomi Lahren host argues California Governor Gavin Newsom needs to focus on the lawlessness in his state before shaming unvaccinated Americans.
California has become the first state in the nation to provide taxpayer funded health benefits to elderly illegal immigrants.
California’s governor, Democrat Gavin Newsom, signed AB 133 into law Tuesday which opened the state&#39;s Medi-Cal rolls to illegal aliens 50 years and older in a move that the governor referred to as a &#34;major milestone.&#34;
CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR NEWSOM BLAMES CONSERVATIVE MEDIA FOR &#39;THIS DAMN RECALL&#39; ELECTION AGAINST HIM
&#34;We&#39;re investing California’s historic surplus to accomplish transformative changes we’ve long dreamed of – including this historic Medi-Cal expansion to ensure thousands of older undocumented Californians, many of whom have been serving on the front lines of the pandemic, can access critical health care services,&#34; Newsom said. &#34;I thank the Legislature for its steadfast partnership to bring California closer to universal health care coverage and advance comprehensive initiatives to ensure California’s communities come back from the pandemic stronger and healthier than before.&#34;
Last year, Newsom signed SB-104 into law which extended health care benefits to individuals ages 19-25, regardless of immigration status. 
GOV. NEWSOM PULLS SON FROM SUMMER CAMP AFTER MASKLESS PHOTOS SURFACE
The bill signed into law Tuesday is 
expected
 
to cost California taxpayers at least $1.3 billion.
It has been 
estimated
 
that at least 3 million illegal immigrants reside in California and the new law will take effect in May of next year.
Newsom is currently facing a recall election in September. 
New 
polling
 shows that 47% of voters polled said they support removing the governor from office.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
If 50% of voters in the recall election say they want Newsom removed, the Republican challenger with the most votes will likely assume his role. Currently, conservative talk radio host Larry Elder is polling the highest among Newsom’s challengers. 
The recall push began last June in response to Newsom’s strict coronavirus lockdown orders and mask requirements which, along with the state’s high taxes and intensifying homeless crisis, caused many Californians to call for his removal with many of them even 
fleeing the state
. Newsom was also criticized for being spotted at a ritzy restaurant skirting his own requirements and dining mask-less with a large group of people indoors.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
