
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Acting ICE Director Ronald Vitiello reacts to report that Haitian migrants are being released into the U.S. 
As officials 
scramble to cope
 with the flood of Haitian migrants to the Del Rio bridge, multiple sources say that the response -- including a surge in agents to the bridge from elsewhere in the sector -- has left other parts of the 
border
 wide open.
As more than 14,000 migrants camped out under the international bridge in 
Del Rio
, the 
Department of Homeland Security
 (DHS) last week surged hundreds of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) law enforcement to the bridge to process migrants as part of a strategy that included increasing deportation flights.
MAYORKAS GRILLED ON CLAIMS DHS WAS WARNED OF DEL RIO CRISIS IN JUNE
That move included closing the port of entry, as well as other border checkpoints in Del Rio – checkpoints that allow CBP to apprehend illicit cargo and illegal migrants -- in order to try and regain control at the bridge.
Brandon Judd, head of the National Border Patrol Council, the labor union representing Border Patrol agents, 
told Fox News
 last week CBP was told months ago that the Del Rio bridge was a weak point.
&#34;Now we do not have that secondary protection, we don’t have that strategy and depth, and the agency made this decision because they failed to prepare for what was coming,&#34; he said.
CBP sources told Fox News this week that 224 miles of the Rio Grande river border have been left unpatrolled as a consequence. A Border Patrol source told Fox that the surge in resources meant not only fewer boats along the border, but also fewer agents patrolling the border on horseback.
TEXAS GOV. ABBOTT CREATES ‘STEEL BARRIER’ OF VEHICLES TO BLOCK MIGRANTS FROM ENTERING US
The horseback Border Patrol have, however, come under fire for pushing back migrants at the bridge, amid false claims that they were using &#34;whips&#34; to push them back. An investigation is currently underway.
Meanwhile, migrants were being diverted laterally across the border to other processing stations -- including those already dealing with the migrant surge more generally and that are already overwhelmed.
Former Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) director Thomas Homan said on 
&#34;Fox &amp; Friends&#34;
 that the move had left the border &#34;unguarded.&#34;
&#34;There&#39;s no operational control,&#34; 
he said
. &#34;When you surge resources to the RGV in the Del Rio Sector that leaves two hundred and twenty four miles of border unguarded.&#34;
&#34; I&#39;ve seen the assignment sheets, two hundred and twenty four miles of southern border. We&#39;re unguarded because you had to surge resources to these other areas that got operational security,&#34; he said.
HARRIS ‘DEEPLY TROUBLED’ BY IMAGES OF BORDER PATROL AGENTS ON HORSEBACK BLOCKING MIGRANTS, AGENTS RESPOND 
One source told Fox News that it makes it easier for Haitians and other migrants to cross other parts of the border, which the source predicted they would do once word spread that the border is not being patrolled.
Meanwhile, local law enforcement have been taking matters into their own hands. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott announced on Tuesday that Texas Department of Public Safety had created a barrier of vehicles to turn back migrants.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;They have created a steel barrier preventing people from being able to cross the border,&#34; Abbott 
said at a press conference
.
&#34;One day there were countless people coming across the border, then the very same day the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) put up all these DPS vehicles, and suddenly, in an instant, people stopped crossing the border in this location. That strategy is working.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
