
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Mayor Pete Saenz describes the criminality he&#39;s seeing in the Laredo border sector on &#39;America Reports.&#39;
EXCLUSIVE:
 Republicans on the 
House Homeland Security Committee
 are calling on the Department of Homeland Security to reveal how many migrants apprehended at the border have been identified within a 
terror watch list
 -- arguing that Americans should be informed of the number.
&#34;Although most of the information on this topic is rightfully classified, the number of known or suspected terrorists attempting to illegally cross into the United States is not kept secret in the interest of national security and the American people deserve to be informed of this number,&#34; 
the letter
 from Reps. John Katko, R-NY, August Pfluger, R-Texas and Clay Higgins, R-La., to DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said.
FOUR MIGRANTS WITH NAMES ON TERROR WATCH LIST PICKED UP AT BORDER SINCE OCTOBER
8.10 GOP Letter to Mayorkas on Suspected Terrorists
 by 
Fox News
 on Scribd
The concern about who is trying to enter the U.S. has grown as an increasing number of migrants, including from countries across the globe, try to enter the U.S. There were more than 
188,000 migrant encounters
 in June, and that number is expected to rise to more than 210,000 for July.
In March, Fox News reported
 that at least four migrants whose names match those on the terror watch list had been picked up by U.S. Border Patrol since the beginning of the fiscal year.
The congressmen said that in a recent trip to El Paso, &#34;it was brought to our attention that recently apprehended individuals had been registered on the terrorist watchlist.&#34;
The Terrorist Screening Database (TSDB) contains 
information
 about the identities of those who are &#34;known or reasonably suspected&#34; of being involved in terrorist activities. The lawmakers said they received the number of migrants identified on the TSDB at a classified briefing and now want that number released to the public.
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION RESUMES FAST-TRACK DEPORTATION FLIGHTS FOR MIGRANTS DENIED ASYLUM
The lawmakers said they are not looking for classified details to be released, such as personally identifiable information, but believed a number of apprehensions would not hurt national security. They also argued that as recently as January that Customs and Border Protection (CBP) was releasing the information to the public.
&#34;We fully understand and support that the safety of our nation is dependent upon classified information remaining classified,&#34; they say. &#34;However, I think we can all agree that a statistic -- a simple, topline number -- made public by itself does not in any way encumber law enforcement from pursuing the individuals beneath those statistics.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
They request that the numbers are immediately released and that the statistic be provided regularly in conjunction with other border numbers.
The letter comes amid greater calls from Republicans for transparency from the Biden administration on the issue of migration and border security. On Monday, 20 
Republicans wrote to Mayorkas
 demanding detailed documents and statistics related to the Biden administration’s handling of the 
crisis at the southern border
 – and threatened a resolution of inquiry if the request is ignored.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
