
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Congressional correspondent Chad Pergram discusses the controversial nomination on &#39;The Story&#39;
Multiple counties in 
Utah
 have come out in opposition to 
President Biden’s
 eco-terrorism-linked nominee to lead the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), Tracy Stone-Manning.
Eight counties in the Beehive State as well as the Utah State Association of County Commissions and Councils (USACCC) passed resolutions against Stone-Manning’s nomination to lead the agency that oversees millions of acres of federal land.
The USACCC&#39;s resolution passed unanimously, declaring that Stone-Manning &#34;is unfit and disqualified to lead the BLM and National Director nor to hold any office of responsibility in the United States Government.&#34;
BIDEN LAND MANAGEMENT NOMINEE ‘COLLABORATED WITH ECO-TERRORISTS,’ TRADED TESTIMONY FOR IMMUNITY
&#34;A National BLM Director should never be under a cloud of suspicion over alleged ties to eco-terrorism, never be on record urging destruction of human dwellings in a wildfire, never be widely suspected of misleading a Senate Committee when exercising its oversight role,&#34; the USACCC stated in the resolution obtained by Fox News.
The USACCC also said a BLM director should &#34;never be be linked to drastic population control policies that hideously limit children and call a baby an environmental hazard, never be under a cloud for allegedly taking financial favors for advocating a position on an environmental matter, and never be a reputed wholesale opponent of public lands grazing when the BLM’s very creation was to manage the unreserved public domain as grazing districts and allotments, among other uses.&#34;
EVERY DEM SENATOR VOTES TO ADVANCE ECO-TERRORIST-LINKED NOMINEE WHO ENDORSED POPULATION CONTROL
The resolution concluded with the USACCC calling on the 
Senate 
to &#34;reject&#34; Stone-Manning’s nomination and warned about the potential future with her at the helm of the BLM.
&#34;Protecting public lands management from the blight of eco-terrorism, criminal conduct and the specter of China-style population control are at risk if the Senate does not reject the nomination of Tracy Stone-Manning,&#34; the county coalition’s resolution warned.
Additionally, the Oregon Farm Bureau came out in 
opposition
 against Stone-Manning on Wednesday.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Joining the USACCC in speaking out against Stone-Manning’s nomination are Utah&#39;s Beaver, Cache, Carbon, Duchesne, Garfield, Iron, Piute and Wayne counties.
Stone-Manning’s nomination to lead BLM was discharged out of the Senate committee last week and will soon be up for a full Senate vote.
The White House did not respond to Fox News’ request for comment.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
