
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sentinel Security Solutions CEO Charles Marino says Biden&#39;s policies have caused the problems at the southern border
Oregon’s State Senate
 on Saturday passed a bill that would make illegal immigrants in the state eligible for Medicaid-funded medical services -- sending the legislation to Democratic Gov. Kate Brown for signature.
The bill, 
HB 335
, expands eligibility to adults who would otherwise qualify for Medicaid-funded state medical assistance program but are excluded due to their immigration status. It passed 17-11 in the Senate, after having passed the House 37-21 earlier this week.
OREGON BECOMES FIRST STATE TO DECRIMINALIZE HARD DRUGS LIKE HEROIN AND COCAINE
The development was first reported by 
The Lund Report
, an Oregon-based outlet. The outlet had 
previously cited
 estimates that there are more than 110,000 illegal immigrants in the state and that the program would cost $100 million in the next two years.
Lawmakers in favor of the bill had 
estimated that the bill
 &#34;would expand Medicaid coverage to include approximately 100,000 Oregonians who would otherwise be eligible except for their status as undocumented immigrants.&#34; 
&#34;When opportunities in our state are withheld from a specific class of people, we perpetuate systems of inequity,&#34; the lawmakers argued in 
The Oregonian
. &#34;As legislators of color, we believe it is important to challenge the injustices that have been in our nation and state since their founding.&#34; 
The bill is likely to be signed by Brown, a Democrat, who had previously expressed support for the &#34;Cover All People&#34; proposal.
&#34;All Oregonians must have quality, affordable health care, regardless of who they are or where they live,&#34; Brown 
said in March
. &#34;During my time as Governor, we’ve made great strides in expanding access. Currently, 94 percent of Oregonians and 100 percent of children have access to health care. The pandemic has taught us this is not good enough. And unfortunately, our communities of color have paid the price. Gaps in coverage persist, and these gaps are disproportionately borne by communities of color.&#34;
NY CREATES $2B FUND TO PROVIDE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WITH COVID RELIEF
It is the latest move by Democrats across the country to expand access to taxpayer-funded benefits programs to those in the country illegally, by either expanding access, dropping restrictions or otherwise by promoting a pathway to citizenship for those who entered illegally.
New York recently created a $2 billion fund to 
offer one-time payments
 of up to $15,600 to illegal immigrants who lost income during the pandemic but were not eligible for federal aid.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In Washington, a number of Democrats pushed for stimulus checks and other coronavirus-related aid to be made available for those in the country illegally, moves that saw pushback from Republicans.
Earlier this year, 
Republicans proposed an amendment
 that would prohibit any future economic impact payments from being sent to illegal immigrants, and 42 Senate Democrats voted against it. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
