
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News correspondent Greg Palkot has the latest on the resettlement of Afghans on &#39;Special Report&#39;
Fort McCoy Army Base
 in Wisconsin identified a case of the measles this week as it brings in thousands of 
Afghan refugees
 as part of the mass evacuation effort in the wake of the Taliban takeover of Kabul.
An internal government email, viewed by Fox News, said that the base confirmed a case of the measles on Sunday. 
UNVETTED AFGHAN REFUGEES ALLOWED TO LEAVE WISCONSIN MILITARY BASE UNSUPERVISED: REP. TIFFANY
&#34;All those who had been in contact with the infected person at base have been isolated, and post-exposure prophylaxis and inoculations are in process,&#34; the notice said.
Separately, a senior U.S. government official confirmed to Fox News that officials identified a single measles case as part of what they called a robust health screening process.
The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) 
describes
 measles as a &#34;highly contagious&#34; virus that can be spread by coughing, sneezing, and by people breathing contaminated air or touching infected surfaces and then their faces. 
It says that the virus is so contagious that if one person has it, up to 90% of the people close to that person who are not immune will also be infected, and that the virus can live for up to two hours in an airspace even after an infected person leaves the area.
PENTAGON OPENS UP MORE MILITARY BASES IN US TO HOLD AFGHAN REFUGEES
According to the 
CDC
, Afghanistan has the seventh highest number of measles cases in the world.
The document said that due to the disease&#39;s contagious nature, Fort McCoy was not receiving evacuees &#34;at this time&#34; and was working to procure the necessary vaccines. However, a spokesperson for Task Force McCoy said that the base was still accepting Afghans, of which it can support 13,000.
The spokesperson told Fox News that they were not authorized to provide specific medical cases, but said that &#34;the health of the Afghans at Fort McCoy is a top priority&#34; and that Afghans are given medical screening and immunizations as needed.
The case comes amid continuing concern about the health risks related to the evacuation. 
The New York Times
 reported that among the refugees who arrived at Dulles Airport on Aug. 29, officials found six positive cases for COVID-19.
A Department of Homeland Security fact sheet about Operation Allies Welcome says that all arrivals are being tested for COVID-19, and have the chance to receive a COVID-19 vaccine, as well as other vaccines, at no cost.
The Pentagon 
said last month
 that it is opening more military bases to hold up to 50,000 
Afghan
 nationals who are either applying for Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) status or are deemed to be &#34;at risk.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The U.S. is opening up Marine Corps Base Quantico in Virginia, Fort Pickett in Virginia, and Holloman Air Force Base, New Mexico to provide support to the U.S. mission to evacuate SIV applicants and other individuals deemed at risk.
That is in addition to Fort McCoy, as well as Fort Lee in Virginia, Fort Bliss in Texas, and Joint Base McGuire-Dix in New Jersey.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
