
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former HHS civil rights director Roger Severino and attorney Harry Litman join &#39;Fox News @ Night&#39; to discuss the legality of vaccine mandates for public employees
First on Fox - 
Sen. 
Kevin Cramer
, R-N.D., is introducing 
legislation
 requiring states that mandate 
vaccine
 passports, or cards showing proof of vaccination, to also mandate 
voter identification
.
The proposed legislation comes after New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio on Tuesday 
announced
 that the city would be 
requiring
 visitors and city residents to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination status, including by using one of two different apps, to go to indoor restaurants, gyms and entertainment venues, becoming the first U.S. city to do so.
&#34;If states that take federal money for elections feel the need to make residents verify a piece of information as private as their vaccination status just to return to normalcy, then they should have no problem requiring people to prove they are who they say they are when they go to vote,&#34; Cramer said in a Tuesday statement. 

      Senator Kevin Cramer, a Republican from North Dakota, listens during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Thursday, June 10, 2021. ( Photographer: Al Drago/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
      
He added that the new bill &#34;would ensure those states are being consistent about their identification requirements and shine a light on those who hypocritically oppose Voter ID laws but support vaccine passports.&#34;
&#39;YOU OPPOSE VOTER ID?&#34; HEGSETH CLASHED WITH TEXAS DEMOCRAT WHO FLED QUORUM TO DC OVER ELECTION REFORM BILL
No governors have issued any kind of statewide vaccine proof requirement, and 20 states including North Dakota have outright banned the possibility of such a requirement. The Biden administration has 
repeatedly said
 it will not issue any kind of 
federal
 vaccine passport mandate.
California
, New York
 and 
Hawaii
, however, have helped create optional digital vaccine passports so that residents can show proof of vaccination status from their smartphones at establishments that choose to require them. 
Oregon
 is requiring retail stores, restaurants, grocery stores and other establishments to review customers&#39; vaccination status cards that they receive after getting the shot in exchange for services, according to local reports.

      In this undated photo, provided by NY Governor&#39;s Press Office on Saturday March 27, 2021, is the new &#34;Excelsior Pass&#34; app, a digital pass that people can download to show proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test. (NY Governor&#39;s Press Office via AP, File)
      
Cramer’s bill, which he plans to introduce as both a standalone bill and as an amendment to Democrat&#39;s 
$3.5 trillion spending plan
, aims to have &#34;all States which require vaccine passports or other such documentation to also require voter identification at the voting polls&#34; in elections starting in 2022. The senator is seeking cosponsors for the legislation.
WIDESPREAD SUPPORT FOR VOTER ID AND MAKING EARLY VOTING EASIER: NATIONAL POLL
Vaccine passports and voter identification requirements have been points of contention between Democrats and Republicans. 
Many Republicans — and the 
American Civil Liberties Union
 — argue that the former is a 
violation of civil liberties
 and an 
overreach
 of government authority. Democrats argue that the latter may make it more difficult for some people to vote, with some calling the practice &#34;
racist
,&#34; in response to a slew of GOP-led voting laws introduced or passed in states like Texas and Georgia that restrict things like early voting and mail-in ballots and require identification at the polls.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Cramer&#39;s office noted that these states receive 
millions of dollars
 each year in the form of federal grants through the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002 every year to help fund states&#39; election administration expenditures.
The senator&#39;s office also noted that California and New York do not have voter ID requirements except for those who are voting for the very first time. The vast majority of Americans (
80%
) support voter ID requirements, according to a Monmouth University poll published in June.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
