
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-
Mich
., underwent 
emergency 
surgery 
in 
Washington, D.C.
, on Friday and was recovering, a spokesperson said, according to reports. 
&#34;Congresswoman Dingell underwent emergency surgery on a perforated ulcer at George Washington University Hospital,&#34; spokeswoman Mackenzie Smith, said, according to FOX 2 in Detroit. &#34;The procedure was successful and she is recovering well. For the next few days she will be recovering at the hospital.&#34;
The congresswoman, 67, opted for over-the-counter non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) over opioids last year after getting jaw surgery, Smith added, saying she wants to be a &#34;cautionary tale that NSAIDs can be harmful,&#34; 
FOX 2
 reported. 
ORIOLES&#39; CHRIS DAVIS OUT FOR SEASON AFTER HIP SURGERY 

      U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Mich., speaks in Washington, accompanied by House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of Maryland, left, and Rep. Matt Cartwright, D-Pa., Feb. 4, 2020. (Associated Press)
      
Dingell had a stomachache on Thursday that got progressively worse through Friday, the Detroit Free Press reported, adding she will likely be recovering at the hospital for five to seven days. 
A perforated ulcer happens when an ulcer burns through the wall of the stomach or intestine. It can cause nausea, severe stomach pain and bloating and should be treated by a doctor immediately, according to 
Fairview Health Services
 in Minnesota. 
&#34;I may actually have to give up junk food and Diet Coke,&#34; Dingell, who remained in good spirits, told the 
Free Press
. 
Last Tuesday, Dingell 
accompanied President Biden while he toured a Ford plant
 in Detroit that builds electric vehicles.
CLICK  HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Dingell has served in Congress since 2015 after winning her husband, John Dingell’s, open seat in 2014. John Dingell was the longest-serving member of Congress when he retired in 2014. He died in 2019. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
