
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Texas Lt. Governor Dan Patrick rips the president for the mistakes made by his administration
House
 Democrats passed a massive legislative budget this week that allows for members of Congress to hire 
illegal immigrants
 to work for them on Capitol Hill.
The legislative funding bill &#34;includes language to permit DACA recipients, Dreamers, to be able to work for Congress and  other legislative branch agencies,&#34; Democratic Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan noted on the House floor Wednesday. 
In the U.S., there are an estimated 800,000 &#34;Dreamers&#34; – children brought to the U.S. illegally who were protected from deportation under an Obama-era program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). 
A federal judge earlier this month 
ruled that DACA was illegal
 and ordered the Biden administration to cease accepting applications for the program.   
BORDER PATROL AGENTS IN RIO GRANDE VALLEY APPREHEND MORE THAN 800 MIGRANTS IN 24 HOURS
Ryan heralded the bill&#39;s passage and the move to allow DACA recipients to work for Congress.
&#34;I am proud that this legislation includes a $134 million increase for Members to hire and retain the staff needed to serve our constituents,&#34; Ryan said in a 
statement
. &#34;I am also pleased that we are helping ensure our workforce reflects the diversity of our nation, including by increasing funding for paid internships and allowing DACA recipients to work in the halls of Congress.&#34;
‘TUCKER CARLSON ORIGINALS’ ENTERS BORDER CRISIS EPICENTER, WHERE ARMED RESIDENTS FACE OFF WITH MIGRANTS
The bill passed by a margin of 
215-207
 and has yet to be voted on by the Senate.
Earlier this month, a federal judge deemed the DACA program unconstitutional and 
ordered
 the Biden administration to stop all applicants. 
CLICK HERE TO GET FOX NATION
Over the past few days, Democrats, including President Biden, have 
called
 for a pathway to citizenship to be included in the budget package which Democrats plan to pass with or without Republican support.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
