
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The office of Rep. Ami Bera, D-
Calif.
, confirmed to Fox News that two dozen Sacramento-area students are stranded in Afghanistan and the 
Biden administration
 has not provided an update on their status.
Bera’s office confirmed in an email to Fox News that the students were trapped overseas, and the California Democrat’s team has been in contact with the San Juan Unified School District (SJUSD) but has not received any update from the administration.
&#34;Our office has been in close contact with the San Juan Unified School District, and have urgently flagged this with the Department of Defense and State Department. We have not received an update from DOD or State,&#34; Bera spokesperson Travis Horne told Fox News on Tuesday.
BIDEN REPEATEDLY MISLED AMERICAN PUBLIC ABOUT AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL
School district staff told the Sacramento Bee on Monday that 24 of their students had not returned from Afghanistan, which is lower than the 150 students initially thought to be stranded.
Bera began working with school district after reading the Bee’s previous 
reporting
 on the subject.
The White House didn’t respond when asked by Fox News if it had a plan to get the 
students
 home and if it was still considered inappropriate to say Americans are &#34;stranded&#34; in Afghanistan, as press secretary Jen Psaki previously said.
Biden has repeatedly been accused of misleading the American public as the Afghanistan crisis has unfolded.
In March, Biden vowed that the Afghanistan withdrawal would be done &#34;in a safe and orderly way.&#34; But the withdrawal was neither safe nor orderly. 
In July, Biden said it would be &#34;highly unlikely&#34; for the Taliban to take over the country after the U.S. pulled out.
The Taliban swiftly took over Afghanistan as the U.S. withdrawal date neared. Kabul fell to the Taliban in the middle of August, while evacuation efforts were still ongoing. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Most recently, Biden promised that his administration would get every American who wanted to leave Afghanistan out of the country before the Aug. 31 withdrawal deadline.
But hundreds of Americans and Afghan allies remain in Afghanistan after the final troops left the country Monday night, with reports indicating that the Taliban carried out &#34;house-to-house executions&#34; after U.S. troops departed.
Fox News&#39; Kelly Laco contributed to this report.
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
