
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Lila Rose, president of Live Action, criticizes President Biden for his stance against Texas&#39; abortion law.
Florida
 may consider adopting an 
abortion
 ban similar to that of Texas, which banned all abortions after a fetal heartbeat can be detected —  around six weeks after conception —  after the 
Supreme Court
 declined to hear the case on Wednesday.
Republican Florida
 Senate President Wilton Simpson confirmed that the Sunshine State would be likely joining other states in passing anti-abortion legislation following the Supreme Court’s decision, he told WFLA on Thursday.
&#34;When the Supreme Court goes out and makes a decision like this, it clearly is going to send a signal to all the states that are interested in banning abortions or making it more restrictive to have an abortion in their state, it’s certainly going to make us take a look at those issues,&#34; Simpson said.
TUCKER CARLSON: TEXAS ABORTION LAW DEMONSTRATES DEMOCRACT STILL EXISTS
The US Supreme Court voted 5-4 on Wednesday denying an emergency appeal filed by abortion providers in an attempt to block a Texas abortion bill that went into effect the same day. 
Signed by 
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott
 in May, the new law prohibits women from getting an abortion after a fetal heartbeat can be detected, roughly around six weeks and before most women know they are pregnant.
The controversial law does not make exceptions for rape or incest survivors.
Florida State Senator Annette Taddeo of Miami-Dade County says this law violates women’s privacy rights
&#34;Understand what Florida Republicans want to do: They want to give rapists the right to sue their victims to stop them from getting an abortion – and to be able to collect money from their victims who try to have an abortion,&#34; Democratic Florida state senator Annette Taddeo said in a statement to NBC6. &#34;If Republicans get their way, rapists will have more power over this decision than the victim.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Texas bill also includes unique authority for private citizens to sue abortion providers and anyone involved in facilitating abortions — such as driving a woman to a clinic — for at least $19,000, if successful.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis
 said on Thursday he supports pro-life legislation and would be looking into it.
&#34;What they did in Texas was interesting, and I haven’t really been able to look enough about it, they’ve basically done this through private right of action, so it’s a little bit different than how a lot of these debates have gone, so we’ll have to look, I’m going to look more significantly at it,&#34; DeSantis said, according to NBC6. &#34;I do think that at the end of the day the science on this has been very powerful now for a long time, you go back 40 years ago what people thought versus what they can see now, very very powerful, so I’ve always been somebody that really does support protections for life, as best as we can do.&#34;
Click 
here
 to read more on the 
New York Post.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
