
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
President Joe Biden gives remarks to Congress Wednesday evening as he prepares to mark 100 days in office
Even before 
President Biden
 made a pitch for national unity in his prime-time address to a joint-session of
 Congress
 on Wednesday night, he took a stab at bipartisanship.
As the Democratic president entered the 
House of Representatives
 and made his way down the chamber’s center aisle, he fist bumped GOP 
Rep. Liz Cheney,
 the number three in the House Republican leadership, who was seated along the aisle. 
While Cheney has made headlines the past couple of months for coming under attack by
 former President Trump 
and his allies – after being the most high profile House Republican to vote to impeach the then-president following the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol - the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney’s also been a vocal Biden critic.
BIDEN LAYS OUT HIS VISION FOR &#39;REBUILDING&#39; AMERICA WITH MASSIVE POLICY PROPOSALS
&#34;What we have seen so far in the Biden presidency is even farther left policies than we could have anticipated,&#34; Cheney told reporters earlier this week.

      Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., greets Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., before President Joe Biden speaks to a joint session of Congress Wednesday, April 28, 2021, in the House Chamber at the U.S. Capitol in Washington. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, Pool)
      
Moments before Biden’s fist-bump with Cheney, the Wyoming lawmaker was greeted with a lengthy handshake by Senate Minority Leader 
Mitch McConnell,
  the top Republican in the Senate. 
CHENEY DOESN&#39;T RULE OUT POTENTIAL 2024 PRESIDENTIAL BID
McConnell, who’s supported Cheney as she defeated efforts by Trump loyalists in the House to strip her of her leadership position, appeared to briefly exchange words with the three-term congresswoman.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
