
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributor Karl Rove on progressives pressuring President Biden on support for Israel.
Sen. 
Ted Cruz
, R-Texas, shared emotional photos of a home in 
Israel
 
that was destroyed in a bombing by the Palestinian Authority-backed terror group 
Hamas
.
The Hamas attack claimed the life of the caretaker of the elderly woman who lived in the Ashkelon home, according to Cruz’s tweet, which called the attack &#34;heartbreaking.&#34;
&#34;Countless times, I’ve seen a Mezuzah hanging on a door frame,&#34; Cruz wrote in his first tweet, which included a picture of the destroyed door frame still bearing the home’s mezuzah. &#34;This is the first time I’ve seen one on a home bombed by terrorists.&#34;
&#34;This is all that remains,&#34; the senator added.
SENS. CRUZ, HAGERTY FLY TO ISRAEL TO SURVEY DAMAGE FROM HAMAS CONFLICT
Cruz also posted a picture of the Israeli woman’s walker standing like an obelisk in the rubble of her home as well as what was left of the house after it was &#34;destroyed by a Hamas rocket.&#34;
REPUBLICANS, DEMOCRATS SLAM HAMAS FOR ROCKET ATTACKS ON ISRAEL
The Texas Republican’s tweets come as he and fellow Sen. Bill Hagerty, R-Tenn., traveled to Israel on Sunday to assess the damage from the recent conflict between Israel and Hamas.
Cruz 
told
 the Washington Free Beacon on Sunday that the purpose of the trip was &#34;to hear and see firsthand what our Israeli allies need to defend themselves and to show the international community that we stand unequivocally with Israel.&#34;
The conflict saw 
hundreds
 
of 
rockets 
fly indiscriminately into Jerusalem and Tel Aviv in attacks by Hamas that were condemned by Republicans and Democrats alike.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The rocket attacks came after confrontations between Palestinians and Israeli police at the Al-Aqsa mosque regarding the 
threats of evicting
 Palestinians in eastern Jerusalem.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
