
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Jill Biden
 embarked Wednesday on her first solo international trip as first lady, leading a U.S. delegation to the 
Olympic
 Games in 
Tokyo
, where the coronavirus is surging and 
COVID-19
 infections have climbed to a six-month high.
She will stop in 
Alaska
 on the way to Japan, and in 
Hawaii
 before she returns to 
Washington
.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Tuesday that President Joe Biden and the first lady both felt it was important that the delegation be led &#34;at the highest level,&#34; and that Jill Biden looked forward to the long journey to help support U.S. athletes, who will be competing in some of the starkest conditions for an Olympic Games.

      US First Lady Jill Biden smiles as she meets military surfers in Newlyn, Cornwall on the sidelines of the G7 summit in June.
      
(Getty Images)
JILL BIDEN TO TRAVEL TO TOKYO FOR SUMMER OLYMPICS DESPITE BAN ON SPECTATORS
She has a robust agenda for roughly 48 hours on the ground in Japan&#39;s capital.
The first lady is set to arrive at Yokota Air Force Base in Tokyo on Thursday afternoon and have dinner with Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and his wife, Mariko Suga, at Akasaka Palace.
She is to return to the palace Friday and be hosted by Mariko Suga. Biden will hold a virtual get-together with members of Team USA before meeting Emperor Naruhito at the Imperial Palace. She attends the opening ceremony for the games in the evening.
On Saturday, the first lady will dedicate a room in the residence of the U.S. chief of mission to former U.S. Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, and his wife, Irene Hirano Inouye. The senator died in 2012, and his wife died last year.
Jill Biden will also host a U.S. vs. Mexico softball watch party at the U.S. Embassy for staff and their families, and cheer U.S. athletes competing in several events before leaving Tokyo.
The trip opens Wednesday at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in Anchorage, where the first lady meets with military and veteran families who stay at Alaska Fisher House free of charge when a loved one is hospitalized. She will also visit Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage to encourage people to get their COVID-19 vaccinations.

      President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden walk on the South Lawn of the White House after stepping off Marine One on Sunday in Washington. (AP)
      
BRISBANE PICKED TO HOST 2032 OLYMPICS WITHOUT A RIVAL BID
The first lady will tour a Honolulu vaccination clinic before she returns to Washington.
Tokyo’s COVID-19 infections surged to a six-month high Wednesday with 1,832 new cases logged just two days before the Games open.
The Olympic host city is now under its fourth state of emergency, which runs through Aug. 22, spanning the duration of the Olympic Games that open Friday and end Aug. 8. Fans are banned from all venues in the Tokyo area, with limited audiences at a few outlying sites.
Suga&#39;s government has been criticized for what some say is prioritizing Olympic sport over public health, and there has been little fanfare in the run-up to the Games, which were postponed from last year because of the coronavirus pandemic.
The Imperial Palace said last month that Naruhito is &#34;extremely worried&#34; that the Games could accelerate the spread of the coronavirus.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Jill Biden is fully vaccinated. Psaki said the U.S. delegation will follow &#34;very strict&#34; health and safety protocols during the trip, including limiting their engagement with the public and keeping as small a footprint as possible.
President Biden is not attending the Games.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
