
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Secret Service Agent Dan Emmett joins ‘CAVUTO Live.’
As President-elect Joe Biden&#39;s inauguration nears, officials have boosted the number of 
National Guard members deployed
 in Washington, D.C., to 25,000 -- an increase of 25 percent.
CAPITOL POLICE WARNED BEFORE RIOT THAT &#39;CONGRESS ITSELF&#39; COULD BE TARGETED
Guard members have fanned out across the U.S. Capitol lawn, inside the building and in surrounding areas of D.C. for days. It&#39;s an unprecedented security force, deemed necessary in the wake of a deadly riot at the Capitol and continuing threats of domestic terrorism. 

      Armed members of the National Guard are stationed outside of the Capitol building on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Jan. 14, 2021. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
      
At least 7,000 National Guard troops from dozens of states are already on the ground in the nation&#39;s capital, with more expected to arrive in coming days at the request of the Secret Service, said Army Gen. Daniel Hokanson, chief of the National Guard Bureau. 
The military security force will be more than three times the total number of U.S. troops currently deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan, reflecting heightened concerns after supporters of President Trump stormed the Capitol while lawmakers were certifying his loss in the Nov. 3 presidential election.
DC DESIGNATES TWO AREAS FOR INAUGURATION DAY PROTESTS AMID HEIGHTENED SECURITY

      Hundreds of National Guard troops inside the Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2021. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
      
&#34;The National Guard has a long and proud history of inauguration support,&#34; Hokanson said during an security briefing with Vice President Pence last week. &#34;The forefathers of today&#39;s National Guard were present for the inauguration of George Washington, and we have been part of every inauguration since.&#34;
The National Guard has been briefed on the 
potential threat of IEDs throughout the city
 after pipe bombs were discovered outside the Democratic and Republican National Committee headquarters the day of the Capitol riot. The culprit remains at large. 
NATIONAL GUARD ON LOOKOUT FOR IEDS WITH CULPRIT BEHIND RNC, DNC BOMBS STILL ON THE LOOSE

      Members of the National Guard patrol outside the Capitol Building on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Jan. 14, 2021. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
      
Biden&#39;s inauguration ceremony is slated to take place outside the Capitol on Wednesday. While there will not be the usual throngs of spectators, security officials from multiple law enforcement agencies are worried about online &#34;chatter&#34; that the FBI said points to the possibility of further violence from Trump supporters who believe, falsely, that the election was &#34;stolen.&#34;
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
City officials are erecting a perimeter throughout downtown and putting up barriers around the White House, National Mall and Capitol. In order to travel through the perimeter, people will need to provide proof of essential purpose.
The National Mall -- with the 
exception of two designated zones
 for a limited and tightly controlled number of protesters -- will remain closed until the day after the event,  as will a perimeter around the monuments, White House and other sections of Pennsylvania Avenue. 
Fox News&#39; Lucas Tomlinson contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
