
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former acting DHS secretary Chad Wolf discusses Arizona&#39;s emergency declaration due to the border crisis and Vice President Harris&#39; upcoming meeting with the president of Guatemala.
Vice President Kamala Harris
 on Friday was greeted by protesters in 
New Hampshire
 who urged her to visit the 
US-Mexico border
 in her role as the Biden&#39;s adminstration&#39;s migration czar.
A handful of protesters brandished signs near Plymouth, NH, including one that read &#34;
Mexico
 —2,254 mi,&#34; according to a pool report.
Another sign said, &#34;Hey Kamala / Stop the illegal invasion / Go visit Mexico.&#34; Yet another sign said, &#34;Impeach Biden-Harris.&#34;
KAMALA HARRIS TAKES NO QUESTIONS FROM REPORTERS DURING NH TRIP
Harris was in 
New Hampshire
 to promote President Biden’s more than 
$2 trillion infrastructure proposal
. She made a similar trip Monday to
 North Carolina
 and will travel next week to 
Baltimore
 to mark the Biden administration’s first 100 days.
Harris touted a proposed expansion of broadband internet in Plymouth before touring an electrical worker union facility in state capital Concord, where she promoted workforce training initiatives.
&#34;We see a light at the end of the tunnel in terms of all that this pandemic has brought in terms of the loss of life and jobs and normalcy. And this, I believe, is one of those things, this push to invest in America’s future, that is going to give people a great sense of hope about what is possible,&#34; Harris said of the infrastructure bill.
While in Concord, Harris made a brief unscheduled stop at a local bookstore, where she inquired about the economic recovery following 
COVID-19
 lockdowns. She accepted a book about a troublesome bear in 
New Hampshire
 described as proving the necessity of government.
Biden on March 24 
asked Harris to lead the US response
 to a surge of migrants, including families and unaccompanied minors from the &#34;Northern Triangle&#34; — 
Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador
 — in Central America.
KAMALA HARRIS HAS GONE 31 DAYS WITHOUT A NEWS CONFERENCE SINCE BEING TAPPED FOR BORDER CRISIS ROLE
But the White House later emphasized she would address 
only the &#34;root causes&#34;
 of migration and not border enforcement.
In the 30 days since, she has yet to visit the southern border or hold a press conference on the border crisis.
Last week, Harris said
 she intends to travel to Latin America
, including 
Guatemala
 and Mexico, but a date has not been announced. 
Harris has spoken by phone with the leaders of Guatemala and Mexico, but she has not spoken with the leaders of El Salvador or Honduras. 
Critics attribute the border crisis to Biden’s policies and have questioned Harris’ commitment, noting her sparse public events on the topic and the fact that she hasn’t visited the border, where children are held in cramped, jail-like facilities.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In a letter Monday, the top 
Republicans
 on three House committees 
asked Harris for a meeting to discuss migration
, writing that &#34;it is unclear what, if any actions you have directed or plan to initiate to respond to the crisis that continues to worsen each day.&#34;
This story first appeared in the 
New York Post
.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
