
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Sen. Raphael Warnock and the organization he chaired for three years, the New Georgia Project, could be in hot water after the 
Georgia
 State Election Board advanced a case against them based on accusations they didn&#39;t deliver voter registration applications on time in 2019, the 
Atlanta Journal-Constitution
 reported.
The board voted Wednesday to refer the case against the New Georgia Project to the state attorney general&#39;s office to continue the investigation or pursue prosecution, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
FULTON COUNTY PROSECUTORS LAUNCH CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION INTO TRUMP PHONE CALL WITH GEORGIA SECRETARY OF STATE
A spokeswoman for the state attorney general&#39;s office told Fox News she was unable to comment on active matters.
&#34;But, procedurally how this works, is that when the file is provided to our office, we will proceed with our own legal review to determine the most appropriate course of action,&#34; the spokeswoman told Fox News.
The New Georgia Project, which was founded by Democrat Stacey Abrams, is accused of delivering 1,268 voter registration applications to Gwinnett County after the 10-day deadline set by state election rules, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger has previously 
called out
 the New Georgia Project for its practices. Raffensperger is the chairman of the State Election Board but mainly votes as a tiebreaker. The board voted to advance the case 3-0, with its only Democrat, David Worley, recusing himself, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.
Warnock is identified as a respondent in the case but was misidentified as CEO instead of chairman of the board, a position he resigned in January 2020, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

      Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., right, talks to a reporter as he leaves the Capitol at the conclusion of the second day of the second impeachment trial of former President Donald Trump on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., Wednesday, Feb. 10, 2021. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
      
((AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta))
The New Georgia Project is a group that aims to register voters, particularly people of color and younger voters.
The organization has had its share of trouble. The New Georgia Project was 
hit with liens
 for failing to pay unemployment 
taxes
 in three different quarters in 2018 while Warnock was at its helm.
The 
Washington Free Beacon
 first reported the story.
The liens, which had not been canceled as of Dec. 21, totaled more than $7,800 combined. One lien was issued in February 2019 and encompassed the quarters ending on June 30, 2018 and Sept. 30, 2018. The other was issued in May 2019 and hit the group for not paying its unemployment taxes in the quarter ending Dec. 31, 2018.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
Fox News&#39; inquiries to Warnock and the New Georgia Project were not immediately returned. 
Fox News&#39; Tyler Olson contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
