
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FAIR, NYC Chapter Co-Chair Yiatin Chu joins ‘America Reports’ to discuss Mayor Bill de Blasio’s plan to end the public school system’s Gifted and Talented program. 
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio
, who has just three months left in office, is quietly 
banishing a statue
 of Founding Father Thomas Jefferson from City Hall’s council chambers — where it has resided for the past 187 years, The Post has learned.
The city’s Public Design Commission — comprised of 
mayoral appointees
 — has listed &#34;the long term loan&#34; of the 1833 bronze cast of the Declaration of Independence author to the 
New-York Historical Society
 on its &#34;consent&#34; agenda for Monday.
The consent designation means the historic statue’s removal is not scheduled for public debate. The 11-member design commission will vote on de Blasio’s Jefferson exile after reviewing public comments, a City Hall spokesman said.

      New York&#39;s Mayor Bill de Blasio makes declarations at a mass vaccination site at Yankee Stadium amid the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic in the Bronx borough of New York City, Feb. 5, 2021.
      
(REUTERS/Carlo Allegri)
NYC PARENT RIPS DE BLASIO FOR REPLACING GIFTED SCHOOL PROGRAM, SAY IT&#39;S ‘NONSENSE’
Meanwhile, a replica of the statue by sculptor Pierre-Jean David is still on display in the Capitol Rotunda in 
Washington, DC. 
The terms of the loan to the historical society for the Jefferson, which was gifted to City Hall by naval officer and Jefferson admirer Uriah Phillips Levy in 1834, are still being negotiated. But 
Councilman I. Daneek Miller (D-Queens)
, who’s been pushing to boot Jefferson, said the loan is &#34;indefinite.&#34;
Miller said he expects the statue to be gone by Oct. 21, the City Council’s next body-wide meeting.
At least one council member wasn’t pleased with Jefferson’s banishment.
&#34;The de Blasio administration will continue the progressive war on history as he, himself, fades away into a portrait on a City Hall wall,&#34; Councilman Joe Borelli (R-Staten Island) told The Post.
&#34;I hope he is at least gone a couple hundred years before someone cancels him,&#34; Borelli said.

      In this Aug. 19, 2020, file photo, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio speaks to reporters after visiting New Bridges Elementary School in the Brooklyn borough of New York, to observe pandemic-related safety procedures. (AP Photo/John Minchillo)
      
NYC&#39;S de BLASIO SENT HIS CHILDREN TO ‘GIFTED AND TALENTED’ SCHOOL
Reps for the historical society didn’t immediately return requests for comment.
&#34;The city would still own the plaster model, and the historical society would include it in educational exhibits and provide valuable historical context,&#34; a mayoral spokesman said.
The planned move comes after the mayor charged his wife, first lady Chirlane McCray, with deciding the sculpture’s fate as head of the Commission on Racial Justice and Reconciliation.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Her appointment came in June 2020 — following George Floyd’s death at the hands of a Minneapolis police officer and a day after several City Council members asked the mayor to remove Jefferson’s likeness from the council chambers because the nation’s third president owned slaves.
&#34;There’s so much about Thomas Jefferson and his own personal writings, memoirs about how he treated his slaves, his family members and things of that nature and how he perceived African Americans and slaves — that they lacked intelligence, that they were not to assimilate into society,&#34; Miller told The Post.
&#34;For us to really highlight such an individual is really not who we are as a council,&#34; Miller said.
Click 
here
 to read more on the 
New York Post.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
