
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Afghanistan interpreter Zalmay Niazy on his fight to stay in America as he faces deportation.
While discussing the end of 
U.S. military
 operations in 
Afghanistan
, President Joe Biden said Thursday that Afghan translators will be welcome in the U.S. 
The comments came during a press conference in the East Room of the 
White House
, where 
Biden
 pledged to bring home American troops by Aug. 31 – capping off nearly 20 years of U.S. military activity in Afghanistan.

      President Joe Biden speaks about the American troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, in the East Room of the White House, Thursday, July 8, 2021, in Washington. 
      
(AP)
Asked by Fox News&#39; Jacqui Heinrich why Afghan translators can’t be evacuated to the U.S. to await their visa processing – like some immigrants at the U.S. southern border – Biden said: &#34;Because the law doesn’t allow that to happen.&#34; 
&#34;And that’s why we’re asking Congress to consider changing the law. But in the meantime, we can guarantee their safety if they wish to leave by taking them to third countries,&#34; Biden said. 
He expressed his hope that they will eventually be able to come to the U.S. &#34;if that’s what they choose to do.&#34; 
Lawmakers and veterans alike have been 
pressuring Biden
 to offer further details on how he intends to help thousands of Afghans who helped the U.S. military as translators, drivers and in other jobs who now fear they will be targeted by the 
Taliban
 after U.S. troops leave. 
BIDEN CHANGES END OF US COMBAT MISSION IN AFGHANISTAN FROM SEPT. 11 TO AUG. 31
Earlier this week, Iowan and Afghanistan interpreter Zalmay Niazy, who faces deportation due to an interaction he had with the Taliban as a child, said on Tuesday that being forced to leave the United States would be a &#34;
death sentence
.&#34; 
The White House says the administration has identified U.S. facilities outside of the continental United States, as well as third countries, where evacuated Afghans would potentially stay while their visa applications are processed. Biden said that 2,500 Afghans have been granted special immigrant visas since he took office in January.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Our message to those women and men is clear,&#34; Biden said. &#34;There is a home for you in the United States if you so choose. We will stand with you, just as you stood with us.&#34;
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
