
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News correspondent Kevin Corke joins &#39;Special Report&#39; with the latest from Washington
Not every 
presidential inauguration
 goes as expected. 
Joe Biden
 is preparing to take the oath of office during an Inauguration Day Wednesday that will look different because of the coronavirus. But he won&#39;t be the first leader to encounter a bit of the unusual on the opening day of his presidency. 
Here are four of the more unusual presidential inaugurations throughout American history:  
Washington, D.C., was ready for this one -- until Mother Nature decided to have other plans. 
The Republican president’s second inaugural ceremony was forced indoors and its parade was canceled when bone-chilling temperatures swept through the nation&#39;s capital in early 1985. 

      First lady Nancy Reagan looks on as President Ronald Reagan is sworn in during ceremonies in the Rotunda beneath the Capitol Dome in Washington on Jan. 21, 1985. Reagan, forced indoors by a record inaugural freeze, reenacted his oath-taking and sounded a second- term dedication to his conservative principles.
      
((AP Photo/Ron Edmonds))
Reagan ended up taking the oath of office inside the Capitol Rotunda in front of a few hundred people. Around 140,000 ticket holders had expected to watch it outdoors -- but the National Weather Service says the 
temperature was 2 degrees below zero that morning
, with gusty winds making it feel like 23 below. 
4 UNFORGETTABLE INAUGURATION MOMENTS THROUGHOUT US HISTORY
Reagan said medical and military experts warned him that under the windy, freezing conditions forecasted, &#34;exposed flesh can freeze within five to 10 minutes, triggering considerable danger to many of the parade and ceremony participants, spectators and the general public.&#34; 
Ron Walker, chairman of the 50th American Presidential Inaugural Committee, had told The Associated Press at the time that he wanted &#34;to cry&#34; after learning about the change in plans. 
But the announcement brought relief to others. 
&#34;I’m sure the kids playing brass instruments would have had the skin ripped right off their lips,&#34; parade costume designer Donna Bailey had said. 
Presidential inaugurations are usually held at the U.S. Capitol during the middle of the day. 
However, for Calvin Coolidge, he took the oath of office around 2:30 a.m. on Aug. 4, 1923, at his family&#39;s home in Vermont. 

      A composite photograph of Calvin Coolidge being sworn in as president at his family&#39;s home in Vermont on Aug. 3, 1923. (Library of Congress)
      
Coolidge, then-vice president, was vacationing in Plymouth Notch when he received word that President Warren Harding had died. 
WHO IS ATTENDING BIDEN&#39;S INAUGURATION?
&#34;By the light of a kerosene lamp, his father, who was a notary public, administered the oath of office as Coolidge placed his hand on the family Bible,&#34; the 
White House
 says. 
Col. John Coolidge later said
 &#34;nobody told me I couldn’t&#34; when asked if he was allowed, as a notary, to swear in America’s next president. 
Everyone appeared to enjoy this stunt -- except for the Secret Service. 
Rodeo performer and actor Montie Montana was photographed lassoing Dwight Eisenhower during his Inauguration Day parade on Jan. 20, 1953. 

      Vice President Richard Nixon, right, and Mamie Eisenhower, center, watch as Dwight Eisenhower is lassoed by California cowboy Montie Montana as he passed the presidential viewing section during the inaugural parade. (National Park Service)
      
Montana – who had appeared in Western films with John Wayne -- rode up on a horse to Eisenhower’s viewing stand and asked him for permission to toss the rope, according to an 
Associated Press report
 from the time. 
&#34;Eisenhower obligingly got to his feet, and the cowboy, on the second try, looped the lariat around his shoulders from a distance of about 15 feet,&#34; it said. &#34;The crowd loved it, and cut loose with a big round of cheers.&#34; 
BIDEN&#39;S INAUGURATION SECURITY: WHAT TO KNOW AS DC LOCKS DOWN
But Montana later told the 
Los Angeles Times
 that the president’s protective detail didn’t find it as funny. 
&#34;I was lucky the Secret Service didn’t ventilate me,&#34; he said. 
America’s ninth president holds the record for the longest inaugural address, speaking for 
an hour and 40 minutes
 on March 4, 1841.  
Even though the temperature reached 54 degrees that day, Harrison delivered his speech 
in the rain and without a coat
. 

      William Henry Harrison&#39;s presidential inauguration on March 4, 1841. (Library of Congress)
      
He kept the same wardrobe for the parade and then spent several hours outside the White House greeting people as temperatures cooled.  
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Harrison ended up catching a cold following the long day, and that later developed into pneumonia. 
He died about a month later, spending just 31 days total in office. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
