
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden&#39;s
 approval rating among voters in the state of 
Iowa
 has plummeted in recent months. 
More Iowans disapprove of the job Biden is doing than approve – Biden has a 43% approval rating and 52% disapproval rating, according to a recent Des Moines Register/Mediacom Iowa poll. Five percent of people polled said they are not sure whether they approve or disapprove.
OKLAHOMA MAN ARRESTED AFTER THREATENING BIDEN AND CONGRESS, PROSECUTORS SAY
Vice President Harris
 faced similar numbers. Fifty percent expressed disapproval of Harris&#39; job performance compared to 42% who approved.
Biden&#39;s job approval numbers among 
Republican
 versus Democratic Iowans are miles apart. Eighty-nine percent of 
Democrats
 approve of Biden compared to just 6% of Republicans, according to the June Iowa 
poll
.

      President Joe Biden speaks during a meeting with FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and Homeland Security Adviser and Deputy National Security Adviser Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Tuesday, June 22, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
However, in March, Biden was doing much better in Iowa. His approval rating was 47% and his disapproval rating was 44%.
Iowans trust Biden more on issues like the 
coronavirus
 pandemic and infrastructure than criminal justice and 
immigration
, according to the poll. Fifty-three percent approve of Biden&#39;s handling of the pandemic, 45% approve of his handling of infrastructure, 29% approve of his handling of immigration and 35% approve of his handling of criminal justice.
Nationally, a May poll indicated that most Americans 
approve
 of the overall job Biden is doing in the 
White House
. Biden stood at 63% approval and 36% disapproval in the poll, which was conducted April 29-May 3. 
The Des Moines Register/Mediacom poll was conducted June 13-16 among 807 Iowa adults. Its margin of error is 3.5 percentage points.
Fox News&#39; Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
