
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A 
California
 restaurant owner is releasing a new documentary series on Friday chronicling his bid to recall three county supervisors for what he says is their refusal to 
reopen
 the county and its schools. 
&#34;Red, White and Blueprint,&#34; produced by restaurant owner and Iraq War veteran Carlos Zapata in Shasta County debuts this Friday. Both he and Cottonwood Barbershop Owner Woody Clendenen are leading the recall effort. 
&#34;Shasta County has much more in common with Montana than San Francisco or Los Angeles, but they’re being held to the standard set by Governor Newsom,&#34; a spokesman for Zapata told Fox News in a statement on Wednesday. 
CNN&#39;S CHRIS CUOMO REPORTEDLY PRIORITIZED FOR COVID TESTING BY BROTHER&#39;S ADMINISTRATION EARLY IN PANDEMIC
The 
docuseries
, which will be in 10 parts, is expected to show Zapata and Clendenen&#39;s recall campaign against three Shasta County supervisors. The series&#39; debut comes after the board members voted on Tuesday to stick with California Gov. Gavin Newsom’s &#34;
Blueprint for a Safer Economy
,&#34; a colored tier system that ranks counties by COVID cases. 
Shasta County Supervisors Mary Rickert, Leonard Moty, and Joe Chimenti voted to stick with the governor’s plan, while Supervisors Patrick Henry Jones and Les Baugh voted to back out. 
It was the second time the board discussed whether or not it will leave Sacramento’s reopening plan, 
Action News Now reported
. The last time this conversation came up was in October. 
Fox News has reached out to Rickert, Moty, and Chimenti seeking comment on the recall effort, but did not hear back before publication. 
NEWSOM BLAMES &#39;ANTI-VAX EXTREMISTS&#39; FOR RECALL BUT HAS HISTORY WITH ANTI-VACCINE ADVOCATE RFK JR. 
When asked by local station 
KRCR-TV
 earlier this month about the recall campaign, Moty labeled it as &#34;an attempt by extremists, who can’t get their way, to try a recall effort through character assassination.&#34; 
&#34;They only want what’s best for themselves and not the whole community,&#34; Rickert said. 
According to the station, the recall campaign could be launched as soon as April 5. Organizers would have four months to collect approximately 4,400 valid signatures in the districts of Rickert, Moty, and Chimenti. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
That recall effort is overshadowed by the more high-stakes recall election that 
Newsom
 likely faces this year over his handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Earlier this month, organizers of the campaign to oust the Democratic governor announced they had collected the required number of signatures necessary to qualify for a statewide ballot.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
