
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Texas Rep. Michael Burgess says it&#39;s a &#39;travesty&#39; the federal government isn&#39;t funding U.S Customs and Border Protection more.
Texas Gov. 
Greg Abbott
 said Tuesday that he has authorized state 
National Guard
 members to arrest people who 
illegally
 cross the 
Texas
-Mexico border.
Along with performing a law enforcement function, Abbott said Guard members will also help with the early stages of constructing 
border barriers
 and a 
border wall
. 
&#34;The Texas National Guard is playing an unprecedented role to secure the border because of the unprecedented refusal of the federal government to fulfill its obligations under federal law,&#34; the governor said 
in a statement
. The National Guard 
typically doesn&#39;t
 have immigration law enforcement capabilities, according to Border Report.
BORDER PATROL NABS 42 HAITIANS ARRIVING IN FLORIDA IN ALLEGED SMUGGLING OPERATION

      Texas Gov. Greg Abbott speaks at a news conference, Tuesday, June 8, 2021, in Austin. (Associated Press)
      
Last month, Abbott 
ordered Guard members 
to assist the Department of Public Safety (DPS) in arresting 
illegal immigrants
 at the U.S.-Mexico border who break state laws.
&#34;To respond to this disaster and secure the rule of law at our Southern border, more manpower is needed,&#34; Abbott 
wrote in a letter
 sent to Major Gen. Tracy R. Norris of the Texas Military Department. &#34;DPS needs help in arresting those who are violating state law. … I hereby order that the Texas National Guard assist DPS in enforcing Texas law by arresting lawbreakers at the border.&#34;
That July order expanded on Abbott&#39;s June disaster declaration, which 
directed
 the DPS to enforce all federal and state criminal laws, including those on criminal trespassing, smuggling and human trafficking. The declaration had allowed the use of all available state resources to assist state and local law enforcement in 
protecting Texans
 from &#34;criminal activity and property damage.&#34; 
Nearly 213,000 migrants were encountered at the southern border in July, a 13% increase over the already massive 188,000 migrant encounters in June, according to Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. In July 2020, there were just 40,929 encounters. 
While the 
Biden 
administration
 has blamed root causes like poverty, violence, and climate change in Central America for the continued crisis, and has unveiled strategies to tackle those causes, Republicans have repeatedly blamed policies by the Biden administration for fueling the surge.
PHONY BORDER PATROL VEHICLE STOPPED IN ARIZONA, FOILING HUMAN SMUGGLING ATTEMPT, US AUTHORITIES SAY
Abbott has made funding for border security a priority for the current legislative special session. In a call Saturday with border sheriffs and county judges, he urged them to make their voices heard to the House Appropriations Committee during a hearing this week. Part of the funding will go toward the deployment of more National Guard members to the border, according to his office. 
In March, Abbott launched Operation Lone Star to combat the smuggling of people and drugs into Texas. Since then, more than 4,600 arrests have been made by the DPS for charges including criminal mischief and criminal trespass. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The operation has also led to the confiscation of more than 700 pounds of cocaine, 127 pounds of deadly fentanyl, and at least 270 firearms. 
Fox News&#39; Adam Shaw contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
