
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Americans still waiting on 
coronavirus
 relief, including stimulus checks, from the federal government may be surprised to learn that 
President Biden
 is reportedly offering $4 billion to 
Central American
 countries for development.
Mexico
 President Andrés Manuel López Obrador 
said
 Saturday that Biden told him the U.S. would send $4 billion to help development in Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala — nations whose hardships have spawned tides of migration through Mexico toward the United States.
IF BIDEN HALTS BORDER WALL, IT COULD COST TAXPAYERS BILLIONS, CBP CHIEF WARNS
Meanwhile, many Americans have not yet received their $600 stimulus checks that were approved as part of the $900 billion relief package passed in December. While some Americans have received checks, the rollout is still ongoing.

      Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., stands with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., as a joint session of the House and Senate convenes to confirm the Electoral College votes cast in November&#39;s election, at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021. (Kevin Dietsch/Pool via AP)
      
Biden has been pushing a third relief package that would include $1,400 checks for individuals, but a bipartisan group of senators 
balked
 at the size of Biden&#39;s $1.9 trillion 
coronavirus
 relief proposal during a call with White House officials on Sunday, raising concerns that the measure provides too much money to high-income Americans.
BIDEN SPARKS BACKLASH AMONG SOME PROGRESSIVES OVER $1,400 STIMULUS CHECKS
Biden wants a massive plan that includes $20 billion to accelerate vaccine distribution, a $15-an-hour minimum wage increase, an extension of supplemental unemployment benefits through the end of September, a one-time $1,400 stimulus check, a temporary expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit and $350 billion in new funding for state and local governments.
Biden promised that border wall building won&#39;t continue under his administration, and critics say his immigration stance encourages Central American migrants to cross the border illegally. Earlier in January, a caravan of thousands of 
migrants
 
clashed
 with 
Guatemalan
 authorities while continuing to trek toward the U.S. border, according to reports.
Former President Donald Trump 
threatened
 to cut aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador for &#34;doing nothing&#34; about migrant caravans in 2019 after pledging to give them billions in 2018. Months later, Trump announced the aid the was 
restored
 after the countries reached immigration agreements with the U.S.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Fox News&#39; inquiry to the White House was not immediately returned.
Fox Business&#39; Megan Henney, Fox News&#39; Jason Donner and Adam Shaw and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
