
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The U.S. Capitol is on lockdown after a suspect drove into Capitol officers. The suspect was shot after getting out of the car with a knife.
The 
United States Capitol
 was briefly locked down Friday after a car 
rammed
 into a barrier on the Senate side of the complex and a 
Capitol Police officer
 was left dead and another injured. 
Sources said the suspect exited the car with a knife and attacked the police before he was fatally shot. The incident came as lawmakers and authorities were still recovering from a deadly riot inside the Capitol building nearly three months ago that saw five deaths. 
Friday&#39;s events are the latest of several violent security breaches that have played out on or near the Capitol grounds in recent years. 
The most recent was the 
Jan. 6 riot
 that saw large crowds of supporters of former 
President Trump
 storm the building while 
Congress
 was in a joint session to certify 
President Biden
&#39;s Electoral College victory. 

      Police officers gather near a car that crashed into a barrier Friday on Capitol Hill in Washington. One Capitol Police officer and a suspect have died. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
      
Suspected rioters were seen scaling the Capitol walls, breaking windows, walking onto the Senate and House floor and attacking police officers. In total, five people died, including Capitol Police officer 
Brian Sicknick
. 
Hundreds have been federally charged in connection to the riot, which came after a gathering in which Trump kept pushing baseless claims of election fraud.  
In 2016, a Capitol Police officer shot a Tennessee man who tried to bring a fake handgun into the Capitol Visitor&#39;s Center. Larry Russell Dawson was sentenced to 11 months over his brandishing of a BB gun during a security check.
Miriam Carey was killed by law enforcement officers on Oct. 3, 2013 after a high-speed chase from the White House. The 34-year-old dental hygienist from Stamford, Conn., allegedly drove through a checkpoint and struck an officer who tried to block her as she was making a three-point turn. 
She had her 1-year-old daughter in the backseat.

      Police officers surround the scene Friday after a car crashed into a barrier on Capitol Hill on the Senate side of the U.S. Capitol in Washington. One Capitol Police officer and a suspect have died. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
      
Authorities said she then sped down Pennsylvania Avenue and became boxed in by law enforcement officers at Garfield Circle in front of the Capitol. She then reversed, hit a police cruiser, and drove away as officers opened fire on the vehicle. 
She eventually crashed into a nearby kiosk and more shots were fired. Carey was struck several times. The child was found unharmed. 
In July 2009, Capitol Police officers fatally shot Kellen Anthony White, 27, after he led authorities on a car chase and shot at officers. Police said he ignored commands to drop his weapon before being fired upon. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Two Capitol Police officers were gunned down in the building in 1998 when a man opened fire inside. Officer Jacob Chestnut, Jr., and Detective John M. Gibson both died.
A tourist was injured but survived. Gibson exchanged gunfire with the assailant, Russell Eugene Weston Jr., who was arrested at the scene and later institutionalized. 
Other attacks included members of the Weather Underground setting off an explosive on the Senate side of the Capitol in 1971 and the 1983 bombing of the building, which marked the beginning of tighter security measures throughout the property. 
Neither incident caused any deaths. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
