
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
James Skoufis, a New York State senator, says Cuomo should be removed from office if he doesn&#39;t resign in the coming days.
Tuesday’s bombshell report by the progressive 
New York
 attorney general saying Democratic Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 sexually harassed multiple women has once again highlighted the growing 
political
 divide between the 
Democratic Party’s
 left-wing and its establishment.
State Attorney General Letitia James revealed Tuesday that she 
concluded
 during her months-long investigation that Cuomo sexually harassed 11 women, including current and former state employees, from 2013 to 2020 in violation of state and federal law.
James, New York’s first Black attorney general with solid roots in Brooklyn politics and the organized labor scene in the state, has become a household name following 
several high-profile investigations
 of the governor and former President Donald Trump. 
INSIDE THE RISE OF NEW YORK AG LETITIA JAMES AS SHE TAKES ON CUOMO, TRUMP
While she has not formally announced her intention to run for governor, a Siena poll released in May showed her 
out-performing
 Cuomo among potential Democratic voters.
Cuomo, who denies any wrongdoing and 
refuses to resign
, appears to believe that the investigation by James’s office is a political one. His lawyers issued a 
statement
 Tuesday in response to the attorney general&#39;s report, saying, &#34;Regrettably, as the findings in the Report show, the investigators have directed an utterly biased investigation and willfully ignored evidence inconsistent with the narrative they have sought to weave form the outset.&#34;
WATCH THE COLLAPSE OF CUOMO ON FOX NATION
The Cuomo scandal has 
posed problems
 for establishment Democrats like President Biden, who last year called the governor the &#34;gold standard&#34; for leadership. The president, as well as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, have all called on Cuomo to resign in light of Tuesday&#39;s report but declined to comment on whether impeachment proceedings should begin if the governor refused.
It was the first time Biden and Pelosi had called on the governor to resign, though Schumer did back in March.
The self-described democratic socialists of the Democratic Party, however, including Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Jamaal Bowman, and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio have repeatedly called for Cuomo’s resignation over the course of the investigation.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The controversy surrounding Cuomo has laid bare the growing rift between progressives and the establishment ahead of the 2022 elections. 
It played out Tuesday night
 in an Ohio special congressional election, where the &#34;Squad&#34;-endorsed Nina Turner, a former 
Ohio
 state lawmaker who co-chaired the 2020 presidential run of U.S. Sen. 
Bernie Sanders
, lost her bid for the Democratic nomination for a 
U.S. House
 seat to Cuyahoga County Councilwoman Shontel Brown, who was endorsed by Hillary Clinton and U.S. Rep. James Clyburn, the House majority whip.
The political rift also recently came to light in New York City’s mayoral Democratic primary, where Eric Adams, a retired NYPD captain, beat out progressives after running on a tough-on-crime platform.
Fox News&#39; Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
