
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
White House correspondent Peter Doocy reports on the President Joe Biden&#39;s speech and agenda on day one of the new administration.
The presidential limousine was spotted in 
Washington
 Wednesday sporting new license plates marking the start of 
President Biden’s
 term -- and maybe a subtle wink in favor of 
D.C. statehood
.
Many drivers in the city choose license plates bearing the phrase, &#34;Taxation Without Representation,&#34; which is a sarcastic play on the Founding Fathers’ demand that they pay the British &#34;no taxation without representation&#34; in Parliament -- and the capital city’s lack of a vote in Congress.
The plate new plates on &#34;The Beast,&#34; as the chief executive&#39;s armored limo is known, have a No. 46, to represent Biden being the nation&#39;s 46th president, and the phrase across the bottom.

      The license plate is seen on the new car of US President Joe Biden, parked at the US Capitol in Washington, DC, January 20, 2021. (Photo by Rod LAMKEY / POOL / AFP) (Photo by ROD LAMKEY/POOL/AFP via Getty Images)
      
(Getty Images)
Washington is represented in the House by a &#34;delegate,&#34; Eleanor Norton, who has less privileges than a U.S. representative, and the city does not have a senator. The city has issued license plates bearing the phrase since the mid-1990s in protest, since residents still pay taxes.
DC MAYOR MURIEL BOWSER, IN LATEST STATEHOOD PUSH, SAYS FEDERAL GOVERNMENT &#39;ENCROACHES&#39; ON AUTONOMY
Statehood would create two new Senate seats – a move that would likely favor Democrats.
The plate has appeared on the presidential limo during several recent administrations, 
DCist reported
 Wednesday.
President Bill Clinton used the phrase, according to the outlet. President George W. Bush did not. And Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump each displayed it for only part of their time in office.
House Democrats passed a 
DC statehood bill
 over the summer, but it failed to find support in the Senate -- where Republicans had no incentive to vote to create two new seats for colleagues who would likely oppose them.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It would have created a 51st state named Washington, Douglass Commonwealth, after the abolitionist Frederick Douglass. The D.C. currently stands for District of Columbia.
The city would have gained two senators and a single new member of the House of Representatives, based on population. It does already have three Electoral College votes, and that would not change.
Fox News’ Morgan Phillips contributed to this report.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
