
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden
 on Monday declared that an emergency exists in 
Florida 
due to 
Tropical Storm
 Fred.
Biden ordered federal assistance to supplement state, tribal and local response efforts -- because of emergency conditions resulting from the storm, according to the 
statement 
TROPICAL STORM FRED MAKES LANDFALL IN FLORIDA: HERE&#39;S WHERE IT&#39;S HEADING

      President Joe Biden speaks from the East Room of the White House, Monday, Aug. 16, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
&#34;FEMA is authorized to identify, mobilize, and provide at its discretion, equipment, and resources necessary to alleviate the impacts of the emergency,&#34; the statement added. &#34;Emergency protective measures, limited to direct federal assistance and reimbursement for mass care including evacuation and shelter support will be provided at 75 percent Federal funding.&#34;
His decision hopes to &#34;lessen or avert&#34; the threat of a catastrophe in 23 counties in Florida, the 
White House
 said. 
It comes as Sens. 
Marco Rubio
 R-FL and Rick Scott R-FL had 
urged Biden to approve Florida Governor Ron DeSantis’ request
 for an emergency declaration due to Fred.
Fred made landfall over Cape San Blas, 118 miles southwest of Tallahassee, around 3:15 p.m. Monday. As of 10 p.m., Fred was about 10 miles south of Dothan, Alabama, with maximum sustained winds of 40 mph, according to the National Hurricane Center (NHC). The storm was moving north-northeast at 12 mph.
FRED PROMPTS TROPICAL STORM WARNING FOR FLORIDA PANHANDLE; HEAVY RAINS, DANGEROUS STORM SURGE EXPECTED
Emergency management officials in Gulf County, where Fred made its landfall, are receiving reports of downed trees and cautioning people to stay home and to be careful if they must travel. 
The storm is expected to bring heavy rains to the southeastern U.S. as it continues to move inland this week.
Forecasters expected 4 to 8 inches of rain from Alabama across Florida’s Big Bend and Panhandle -- with even a foot of rain in isolated spots. The surge could push seawater of between 3 to 5 feet onto the coast between Florida’s Indian Pass and the Steinhatchee River.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;On the forecast track, the center of Fred will move across western and northern Georgia on Tuesday, across the southern Appalachian Mountains on Tuesday night, and into the central Appalachians by early Wednesday,&#34; according to the NHC, which expects the storm to become a tropical depression overnight or early Tuesday.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
