
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Judicial Crisis Network President Carrie Severino joins ‘America’s Newsroom’ to discuss the legal ramifications of Texas’ abortion law. 
FIRST ON FOX: 
The number of 
abortions
 increased in more than 
20 states
 alongside a rise in its chemical or pill form, according to a new report.
The pro-life Charlotte Lozier Institute (CLI) 
posted data
 Friday showing that 21 states saw increases in abortions while 17 saw declines from 2018 numbers. Overall, the 39 states with available data underwent a collective increase of 2.3%.
The biggest drops occurred in Missouri (-49.5%) and West Virginia (-21.5%), which CLI said could have been the result of recently enacted pro-life measures. Meanwhile, substantial increases were observed in Delaware (21.3%), Idaho (20.4%), Iowa (25.2%) and Kentucky (14.4%).
CLI&#39;s data appeared to be the most recent, large-scale report for abortions in the United States. Last year, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) reported a slight uptick in abortions from 2017 to 2018. The number of abortions fell by 19% from 2016 to 2017, according to the 
Guttmacher Institute
.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE SUES TEXAS OVER ABORTION LAW: ‘CLEARLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL’
Friday&#39;s data follows the 
Justice Department&#39;s
 decision to sue Texas over a restrictive abortion law that many have described as sidestepping 
Supreme Court
 precedent on the issue. It&#39;s one of many state measures that, if permitted, could shutter clinics and increase demand for medication abortions.
Among 33 states that reported data on chemical abortions, CLI found that their use increased by 11.8% from 2018. That represented a shift from 41% of total abortions in 2018 to 44% in 2019.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is expected to announce this fall whether it will make permanent a temporary decision to remove restrictions on telemedicine abortions – a point of contention that arose as 
COVID-19
 imposed limits on medical visits.
Janet Woodcock, the acting FDA commissioner, said earlier this year that existing literature didn&#39;t appear to show increases in serious safety concerns (ectopic pregnancy, hemorrhage and surgical interventions) as a result of modifying the in-person requirement during COVID-19.
PRO-LIFERS PUSH BACK AS LEFT-WING PUNDITS QUESTION SCIENCE ON FETAL HEARTBEATS AFTER TEXAS ABORTION RULING
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) similarly 
praised
 the decision as a way to protect patients and medical professionals from contracting COVID-19 during in-person visits. It also maintained that studies had shown the drug to be &#34;a safe, effective medication.&#34;
By contrast, the 
Trump
 administration 
defended
 the restrictions, telling Vice it served to &#34;ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh its risks.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Pro-life advocates have worried that deregulating access to abortion pills could be detrimental to women&#39;s health. 
The Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians and Gynecologists (AAPLOG) previously told Fox News that in-person visits are critical to detecting ectopic pregnancies, which can be life threatening; ensuring accurate estimations of gestational age; and for determining whether women need the medication Rhogam, which is used to prevent complications in future pregnancies.
&#34;It is impossible for a physician who is states away to safely, compassionately and fully care for a woman and ensure she has appropriate follow up,&#34; said AAPLOG President Dr. Christina Francis. &#34;Abandoning our patients to the closest clinic or emergency room is not good medicine.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
