
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky said Wednesday that 
schools
 should keep 
mask mandates,
 even if children are 
vaccinated
. 
Walensky, speaking at a 
White House
 
COVID-19
 team briefing, urged that even as cases decline following a surge of the highly transmissible delta variant, Americans must not become complacent ahead of the winter months. 
WHITE HOUSE UNVEILS VACCINATION ROLLOUT PLAN FOR KIDS 5-11 AHEAD OF POSSIBLE AUTHORIZATION
&#34;First, we&#39;re really encouraged as we watch the COVID-19 cases come down from this delta surge, in this very moment,&#34; Walensky said. &#34;But, we all know that 
respiratory viruses
 … tend to thrive in winter months and 
colder weather
. So, right now is not the time, as cases are coming down, to become complacent because we do know colder weather is ahead of us and we need to do all that we can – including vaccinating those 66 million people who have not yet been vaccinated – all we can in our prevention measures and our vaccination efforts to make sure that we don&#39;t become complacent during this period of time.&#34;
Walensky also said that the administration will be working to &#34;scale-out pediatric vaccination&#34; after authorization from the Food and Drug Administration and recommendations from CDC experts. 
PFIZER-BIONTECH SUBMIT COVID-19 VACCINE DATA TO FDA FOR KIDS 5-11
&#34;It will take some time and as I just noted, as we head into these winter months we know we cannot be complacent. We also know that from previous data that schools that have had masks in place were three-and-a-half times less likely to have school outbreaks requiring school closure. So, right now we are going to continue to recommend masks in all schools for all people in those schools and we will look forward to scaling out pediatric vaccination during this period of time,&#34; she said. 
School mask requirements have seen some pushback from parents and a New Hampshire judge on Wednesday 
dismissed
 a request to stop enforcing a mask-wearing policy in Rockingham County school districts.
The White House 
announced
 Wednesday that children aged 5 to 11 would be able to get a Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 shot in just a matter of weeks.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Federal regulators will reportedly meet to weigh the safety and effectiveness of distributing low-dose shots to the roughly 28 million children in that age group.
As to school vaccination requirements, White House COVID-19 response coordinator Jeff Zients said that decisions would be made at the state and local level, noting that &#34;school vaccination requirements have been around for decades.&#34;
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
