
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News correspondent Bill Melugin reports live from Del Rio, Texas, as border crisis intensifies and migrant facilities are overrun.
Fox News drone footage over the International Bridge in Del Rio Texas shows thousands of migrants being kept there as they wait to be apprehended after crossing illegally into the United States — as local facilities are overwhelmed and the 
crisis at the border
 continues.
Border Patrol and law enforcement sources told Fox News that over 4,200 migrants are waiting to be apprehended under the bridge after crossing into the United States.
MIGRANT ENCOUNTERS OVER 200,000 AGAIN IN AUGUST, AS BORDER SURGE CONTINUES 
The new footage shows how the migrant crisis that has rocked border states, with a knock-on effect in states across the country, appears to be far from over.
Click here to see the footage.
Sources told Fox that the situation there is getting worse every day and the numbers are growing by the hour. 
A 
DHS source told Fox News
 that there were 208,887 encounters in August. While it marks the first decrease in migrant encounters seen under the Biden administration, during which migrant encounters have been sharply rising for months, it is only a 2% drop over the more than 212,000 encounters in July.
The 208,887 number for August represents a 317% increase over August 2020, which saw 50,014 encounters — and a 233% increase over August 2019, where there were 62,707 amid that year&#39;s border crisis.
MORE MIGRANTS BEING RETURNED TO MEXICO AFTER SUPREME COURT ORDER REINSTATES TRUMP-ERA POLICY
The Biden administration has faced intense criticism for its handling of the crisis along the U.S.-Mexico border, which Republicans have blamed on Biden policies like the rollback of Trump-era policies like the 
Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP)
. 
The Biden administration has in turn blamed the Trump administration for sealing off legal pathways to asylum, while emphasizing the role that root causes – like poverty, violence and corruption in Central America – play in encouraging migrants to travel north.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
House Republicans on Tuesday submitted a 
resolution of inquiry
 to attempt to get answers from the 
Biden administration
 regarding the southern border situation. 
The resolution
 requests that the administration, through the president, submit documents and communications related to the administration’s handling of the border, and comes after complaints by Republicans that the Department of Homeland Security has not been responsive to requests for information.
Bill Melugin currently serves as a national correspondent for FOX News Channel based out of the Los Angeles bureau.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
