
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Republican 
Rep. Liz Cheney
 of 
Wyoming 
isn’t closing any doors to a potential 2024 run for the White House.
&#34;I’m not going to rule anything in or out. Ever is a long time,&#34; the third-ranking GOP lawmaker in the House of Representatives told the 
New York Post
 in an interview that was published Monday. Cheney, who’s attending the House
 Republican
 retreat in Orlando, Florida, was asked if she’d consider a 2024 presidential bid.
TARGETED BY TRUMP, CHENEY BRINGS IN IMPRESSIVE FUNDRAISING HAUL
A longtime vocal GOP critic of then-
President Donald Trump
, Cheney was the most high-profile of the 10 House Republicans who voted in January to 
impeach
 Trump on a charge of inciting the deadly Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol by right-wing extremists and other Trump supporters, who aimed to disrupt congressional certification of Trump&#39;s presidential election defeat by Joe Biden.

      Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., the House Republican Conference chair, is joined at right by Rep. Victoria Spartz, R-Ind., and Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., the House minority whip, as they speak with reporters following a GOP strategy session on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, April 20, 2021. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
      
Cheney immediately came under verbal attack by Trump and his allies and remains at the top of his list of Republican enemies he hopes to topple in the 2022 midterms. Trump loyalists in the House attempted to strip Cheney of her role as
 House 
Republican Conference Chair, but the three-term congresswoman easily crushed the effort to dump her from her leadership position.
FORMER TRUMP ADMINSTRATION OFFICIAL MULLING PRIMARY CHALLENGE AGAINST CHENEY
But the attacks against Wyoming’s statewide representative in the House and the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney seemed to have energized the congresswoman’s fundraising. Earlier this month she reported a record $1.54 million haul during the January-March first quarter of fundraising for her 2022 reelection campaign.
Cheney, in her interview with the New York Post, was confident the GOP could win back the presidency in 2024, saying &#34;I think we have a huge number of interesting candidates, but I think that we’re going to be in a good position to be able to take the White House.&#34;
But she emphasized that GOP lawmakers who supported Trump’s bid to overturn his 2020 defeat to Biden should be disqualified from running for the Republican nomination in 2024.
&#34;I do think that some of our candidates who led the charge, particularly the senators who led the unconstitutional charge, not to certify the election, you know, in my view that’s disqualifying,&#34; Cheney said.
Trump has remained very popular with Republican voters, according to the most recent surveys, and his clout over GOP politicians has remained potent as he tries to play a kingmakers role in Republican Party politics and flirts with a 2024 run to regain the presidency.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But in a press conference with reporters on Monday, Cheney made it clear that the GOP &#34;is headed by (Senate Minority Leader) Mitch McConnell and (House Minority Leader) Kevin McCarthy.
&#34;I think as we look at &#39;22 and &#39;24. we&#39;re very much going be focused on substance and on the issues, and I think that&#39;s where we&#39;ve got to attract back to the voters that we lost in 2020 by conveying to them that … we are the party that they can trust. We&#39;re the party of competence and of conservative principle,&#34; she said. 
Fox News&#39; Robert Sherman contributed to this repor
t
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
