
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on FoxNews.com.
Idaho
 Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin on Tuesday issued an executive order banning 
vaccine
 mandates and required 
coronavirus 
testing in 
schools 
and colleges in the state, prompting Gov. Brad Little to say he had not authorized her to act on his behalf while he was at the U.S-Mexico border. 
Little said he would &#34;rescind&#34; any executive orders McGeachin issues while he is away and she is acting governor, including her attempt this week to send 
National Guard
 troops to the border. 
&#34;I am in Texas performing my duties as the duly elected Governor of Idaho, and I have not authorized the Lt. Governor to act on my behalf,&#34; Little said in a statement on Tuesday. &#34;I will be rescinding and reversing any actions taken by the Lt. Governor when I return.&#34; He is expected back in the state on Wednesday. 
In Idaho, the governor and lieutenant governor don’t run on the same ticket and McGeachin and Little have previously butted heads. She is also 
running for governor in 2022
. Both are Republicans. 
UTAH INDEPENDENT EVAN MCMULLIN LAUNCHES 2022 SENATE BID
In May when Little was out of state, she issued an executive order banning mask mandates that Little eliminated when he returned, saying those decisions were best left to local officials. 

      Republican Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin of Idaho addresses a rally on the Statehouse steps in Boise, Sept. 15, 2021. 
      
(Associated Press)
The new executive order also prevents employers from requiring their employees to be vaccinated against COVID-19 and is an extension of one Little issued in April that banned mandates at state facilities not including schools, according to the 
Idaho Statesman. 
IDAHO GOVERNOR AND LIEUTENANT FEUD OVER VACCINATIONS
McGeachin said she had &#34;fixed&#34; the order. &#34;I will continue to fight for your individual liberty!&#34; she tweeted. 
Maj. Gen. Michael J. Garshak, the commanding general of the Idaho National Guard, also said that as acting governor McGeachin doesn’t have the authority to send the National Guard to the border. 

      Idaho Gov. Brad Little at a March 2020 news conference. 
      
(Getty Images)
McGeachin disputed that claim, writing to Garshak on Tuesday, &#34;My constitutional authority as Governor affords me the power of activating the Idaho National Guard. As the Adjutant General, I am requesting information from you on the steps needed for the Governor to activate the National Guard.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Garshak replied hours later, &#34;I am unaware of any request for Idaho National Guard assistance under the Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC) from Texas or Arizona. As you are aware, the Idaho National Guard is not a law enforcement agency.&#34;
Little was in Texas this week meeting with other nine other Republican governors to discuss the crisis at the border. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
