
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Parents rip plan to monitor their scrutiny of local school boards. Rhode Island parent Nicole Solas and state Sen. Julie Daniels weigh in on &#39;Fox &amp; Friends First.&#39;
A
 San Diego
-area 
school 
district may ban the teaching of 
critical race theory
 this week, according to a report. 
The San Dieguito Union High School District in North County San Diego would be the first in the county to ban the controversial teaching practice, the Times of San Diego reported. 
The school board will consider proposed language that says &#34;Instruction shall not teach or include Critical Race Theory as part of the curriculum, instruction or educational materials&#34; during its virtual meeting Thursday.
Other school districts in San Diego and across the country are considering banning the teaching, which has become a political flashpoint.
Critical race theory focuses on how power structures and institutions impact racial minorities but critics say it can make White men feel like they are oppressors and women and minorities feel like helpless victims. 
MCAULIFFE DOUBLES DOWN, CALLS YOUNGKIN&#39;S OPPOSITION TO CRITICAL RACE THEORY A ‘RACIST DOG WHISTLE’ 
The new language is supported by the district&#39;s interim Superintendent Lucile Lynch. 

      The San Dieguito Union High School District in North County San Diego would be the first in the county to ban the controversial teaching practice. 
      
(Google Maps)
Parent Deborah Harroun in rural Ramona said last month she supports a similar proposal in that school district. 
&#34;This policy does not restrict your ability to educate, it is restricting your ability to indoctrinate,&#34; she said, according to the 
San Diego Union-Tribune
. &#34;As a teacher, your job is to provide a proper education, not indoctrinate with your personal opinion. Teachers forfeit all their First Amendment rights when they accept employment.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Katherine Stenger of the Encinitas4Equality Equity in Education Group on Wednesday called the proposed language in the San Dieguito School District &#34;absurd, divisive and antithetical to the spirit of academic inquiry&#34; in a letter to school officials. &#34;It is clear that this is mere far-right dog-whistling and part of a plan to foster division and chaos in our district,&#34; according to the 
Times
. Encinitas is within the district. 
She said the district should focus instead on implementing the new law signed by Gov. 
Gavin Newsom
 that will require students to take at least one ethnic studies course to graduate from high school by 2029. 
Fox News&#39; Sam Dorman contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
