
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Former President 
Barack Obama
 is reportedly planning to host a 60th birthday party for himself on Martha’s Vineyard as threat of the 
delta
 variant continues. 
Obama will turn 60 on Wednesday and is anticipated to invite dozens of his friends to his nearly 30-acre property in Massachusetts. It is unclear who exactly will be invited, 
but one source told the Hill
 that stars such as Oprah Winfrey and George Clooney received invites. 
&#34;It&#39;s going to be big,&#34; a source told the Hill. 
OBAMAS PAY $11.75M FOR MARTHA’S VINEYARD HOME ON NEARLY 30 ACRES: REPORT
Guests will reportedly be asked to take a coronavirus test and be vaccinated ahead of the event. 
Obama and former first lady 
Michelle Obama
 purchased the $11.75 million mansion in 2019, which is located in the Edgartown section of the island.
The birthday bash comes as Massachusetts recommends some vaccinated individuals wear face masks in public in response to threats of the delta variant.
PROVINCETOWN ISSUES FACE MASK ADVISORY AFTER NEW COVID OUTBREAK IN SUMMER HOTSPOT
&#34;If you have a serious health condition or risk of developing a severe illness from COVID, you should take extra precautions. If you have a close friend or family members who have a serious health condition or a serious risk of developing a severe disease or illness from COVID, you should take extra precautions,&#34; Republican 
Gov. Charlie Baker said
 last week. 
Local health officials in Provincetown also instituted a new mask advisory last week following a coronavirus outbreak in the Cape Cod vacation destination. 
The guidance came after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated its mask guidance on Tuesday for vaccinated people over the threat of the delta variant, and is now urging people in some areas of the country with &#34;high&#34; or &#34;substantial&#34; COVID-19 transmission to mask up indoors. 
Obama celebrated his 
50th birthday
 in 2011 at the White House with guests such as musicians Jay-Z and Stevie Wonder, actor Tom Hanks and comedian Chris Rock. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Office of Barack and Michelle Obama did not immediately respond to Fox News&#39; request for comment on the matter.
News of the birthday party drew the ire of critics on social media, who characterized the move as hypocritical in light of the new guidance on the delta variant. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
