
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
West Virginia senator breaks down partisan COVID relief bill, president&#39;s cabinet nominees, and hopes for bipartisanship on &#39;Special Report.&#39; 
An old tweet from 
President Biden’s
 nominee to be the number three at the 
Pentagon 
has resurfaced as the nomination process heads to the 
Senate 
floor.
Colin Kahl&#39;s 
nomination
 to be Biden’s undersecretary of policy at the Pentagon barely made it out of Armed Services Committee. The Senate split 50-50 Thursday on the procedural step of moving Kahl&#39;s nomination to the floor for a final vote, requiring Vice President Kamala Harris to cast the tie-breaking vote. 
As the Senate gears up to vote on Kahl’s nomination, however, an old tweet from 2018 has resurfaced where he downplayed news that Israel had nabbed Iran’s nuclear program archive before Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s press conference on the operation.
Kahl also said the findings had a &#34;vibe&#34; similar to before the Iraq War. 
Tablet 
magazine first publicized the tweet in an article on Thursday.
WHAT ARE THE IRAN NUCLEAR TALKS ABOUT?
&#34;Let’s see what this is,&#34; Kahl wrote in 2018. &#34;But this sure has an eerie pre-2003 Iraq vibe to it.&#34;
Tehran officially 
acknowledged
 the Israeli operation that plucked their nuclear program archive last week.
Senator Ted Cruz, R-Texas, tweeted out Tablet’s article, quoting a passage of journalist Tony Badran’s article.
&#34;‘Kahl opted to go one step further—or three—and suggested that the evidence Israel obtained and intended to publicize was part of some kind of Jewish plot to sucker America into war,’&#34; Cruz quoted.
The White House did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment on Kahl’s tweet.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It was announced last week that the US and Iran would begin negotiations with Iran to re-enter the 2015 nuclear agreement where Iran would give up pursuits of a nuclear weapon.
In return for not trying to develop nuclear weapons, Iran would have some of its sanctions by the US lifted, including those on oil exports and use of the global banking system.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
