
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Unhyphenated America Executive Director Christopher Harris provides insight on ‘Fox and Friends First.’
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
 on Wednesday vowed that House lawmakers, in tandem with the 
Biden administration
, will not stop working until the 
George Floyd Justice in Policing Act
 becomes law.
The comments came after House lawmakers re-introduced the bill. It was first unveiled last June when 
nationwide protests
 were ascendant after the police custody death of 
George Floyd
 in Minneapolis.

      House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., with impeachment managers Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Calif., and Rep. Joe Neguse, D-Colo., speaks to members of the media during a news conference on Capitol Hill.
      
(AP)
&#34;Today, by re-introducing the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, the House is again joining the American people to turn this moment of agony into one of action, as we honor George Floyd’s life and the lives of all killed by police brutality,&#34; Pelosi said in a statement.
The bill, Pelosi said, will address &#34;systemic racism, curb police brutality and save lives.&#34; It also bans chokeholds, stops no-knock warrants, combats racial profiling, and establishes new protections to prevent and combat police misconduct.
Pelosi said that despite last year’s protests that brought renewed calls for criminal justice reform, &#34;police brutality continues.&#34; She said there were more police killings in 2020 than in 2019, with minority groups &#34;bearing the brunt of this cruelty.&#34; 
DCCC CHAIR MALONEY DEFENDS NEW HIRE WHO CALLED CAPITOL POLICE &#39;WHITE SUPREMACISTS&#39; AFTER RIOT
&#34;Working with the Biden-Harris Administration and the millions of Americans marching and demanding action, we will not stop working until this legislation becomes law,&#34; Pelosi said. 
The comments as several witnesses have been subpoenaed to appear before a federal grand jury considering charges against former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, who is already facing state murder charges in Floyd’s death. 
The Justice Department&#39;s federal civil rights investigation has been focused on Chauvin and some of the witnesses, including other officers who worked with Chauvin, according to a person who spoke to The Associated Press. 
Jury selection begins in Chavin&#39;s state case on March 8 — he faces second-degree murder and manslaughter charges — with opening statements scheduled for March 29.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The increased federal grand jury activity in connection with Floyd&#39;s death comes as the Justice Department, under President Joe Biden, is expected to focus more on civil rights issues, criminal justice overhauls and policing policies in the wake of nationwide protests over the death of Black Americans at the hands of law enforcement.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
