
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
White House
 press secretary Jen Psaki said during Thursday&#39;s press briefing that 
President Biden
 supports 
coronavirus
 vaccines for undocumented immigrants.
&#34;The more people who are vaccinated, whether they’re undocumented or not, the safer we are as a country, and that’s certainly the president’s point of view,&#34; Psaki said.
SOME ICE DETAINEES GETTING COVID-19 VACCINE, AGENCY SAYS
Her statement came in response to a question about a 
push
 for 
Florida
 to waive residency requirements for the vaccine to allow undocumented immigrants to get it.
The issue has continuously made headlines this year. For example, some immigrants detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) have been receiving COVID-19 vaccines. 

      Pharmacist Mia Yu removes a vial of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine from the refrigerator at a pop up site at Commonpoint Queens The Hub in partnership with the UJA- Federation of New York, Thursday, March 18, 2021, in New York. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer)
      
((AP Photo/Mary Altaffer))
Meanwhile, Republicans have objected to statements from the Biden administration that it will not bar illegal immigrants from getting the much-sought-after vaccines.
&#34;President Biden’s plan to vaccinate illegal immigrants ahead of Americans who are currently being denied the COVID-19 vaccine is a slap in the face to millions of hard-working families who have been waiting months for the vaccine,&#34; House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., said in a 
statement
 in February.
Rep. 
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez
, D-N.Y., accused Nebraska Gov. Pete Ricketts, a Republican, of being racist after he said undocumented workers at meatpacking plants would not be included in his state’s vaccine distribution plan. 
&#34;Imagine being so racist that you go out of your way to ensure that the people who prepare *your* food are unvaccinated,&#34; Ocasio-Cortez wrote on Twitter in January.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Illegal immigrants are not permitted to work in those facilities, so I don&#39;t think that will be a problem,&#34; Ricketts responded. 
&#34;Again, you’re supposed to be a legal resident of the country to be able to be working in those plants so I do not expect that illegal immigrants will be part of the vaccine with that program,&#34; he continued.
Fox News&#39; Adam Shaw, Morgan Phillips and Sally Persons contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
