
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Linda Thomas-Greenfield is President Joe Biden&#39;s pick for U.S. ambassador to the 
United Nations
.
Thomas-Greenfield, 69, was born in 
Louisiana
 and attended 
Louisiana State University
 where she obtained her bachelor&#39;s degree before earning her master&#39;s at the 
University of Wisconsin
 and working toward a Ph.D. 
In May of 2018
, the university gave her an honorary 
Doctor of Law
 degree.
BIDEN PICKS BLINKEN, MAYORKAS, SULLIVAN FOR KEY CABINET POSITIONS
Following her 
education
, Thomas-Greenfield taught 
political science
 at Bucknell University in 
Pennsylvania
 before jumpstarting her 
decades-long career
 in 
foreign service
. 
Thomas-Greenfield worked at the U.S. Foreign Service 
for 35 years
 and she held an ambassadorship in 
Liberia
 from 2008 to 2012 as well as other roles in The Gambia, Nigeria, 
Switzerland
, 
Pakistan
, 
Jamaica
 and Kenya.
In 
Washington, D.C
., Thomas-Greenfield served as deputy assistant secretary of the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration from 2004 to 2006, as well as principal deputy assistant secretary of the Bureau of African Affairs from 2006 to 2008.

      Sen. James Risch, R-Idaho, left, greets United States Ambassador to the United Nations nominee Linda Thomas-Greenfield before her confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Capitol Hill, Wednesday, Jan. 27, 2021, in Washington. (Greg Nash/Pool via AP)
      
For a year starting in 2012, Thomas-Greenfield was also the director-general of the Foreign Service and director of human resources.
From 2013 to 2017, she worked as the assistant secretary for the Bureau of African Affairs, with a focus on sub-Saharan Africa.
More recently ahead of her selection by 
President Joe Biden
, Thomas-Greenfield was a senior vice president for strategic commercial diplomacy firm Albright Stonebridge Group -- which is co-chaired by former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and former Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez -- and headed their Africa Practice.
In 2017, she was also named a 
Distinguished Resident Fellow
 in African Studies at the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy through the spring of 2019.
Over the course of her career, Thomas-Greenfield has been granted numerous accolades for her work, including the 2000 Warren Christopher Award for Outstanding Achievement in Global Affairs, the 2015 Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award, the Presidential Meritorious Service Award and a 2010 induction into the Louisiana State University Alumni Association Hall of Distinction.
Biden&#39;s transition team 
announced her nomination
 for the position on Nov. 23.
Known for her hallmark 
&#34;gumbo diplomacy,&#34;
 the nominee is reportedly pledging to counter 
China&#39;s
 &#34;authoritarian agenda&#34; as well as engage in &#34; genuine, old-fashioned, people-to-people diplomacy.&#34;
During her testimony
, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
pressed
 Thomas-Greenfield about a 2019 speech at the Savannah State University Confucius Institute, which was funded by the Chinese government but has since shut down. 
She called accepting the invitation a &#34;huge mistake,&#34; noting that she had done so as a part of her commitment to interact with young Black students and encourage them to consider a career in foreign affairs.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
With a more traditional approach to foreign policy than the 
Trump administration
, Thomas-Greenfield 
said in her testimony
 that walking away from the table allows for others to &#34;fill the void&#34; and for the &#34;global community&#34; to suffer. 
&#34;When America shows up -- when we are consistent and persistent -- when we exert our influence in accordance with our values -- the United Nations can be an indispensable institution for advancing peace, security, and our collective well-being,&#34; she said.
Thomas-Greenfield is expected to be confirmed by the Senate.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
