
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Brewer Group CEO Jack Brewer reacts to Black Lives Matter getting nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.
The 
Nobel Peace Prize
 seems to only recognize liberal principles, Brewer Group CEO Jack Brewer argued on Saturday, reacting to the Black Lives Matter movement getting nominated for the prestigious honor.
&#34;You know, the Bible says one day good will be evil and evil will be good. You look at this, look back in 2009, Barack Obama received a Nobel Peace Prize and then went on to drop over 100,000 bombs on the world. President Trump is denied the Nobel peace prize after negotiating four of the most incredible Middle East peace deals in history,&#34; Brewer told &#34;
Fox &amp; Friends
.&#34;
Brewer questioned why the Black Lives Matter movement should receive the Nobel Peace Prize after rioting struck cities during their protests last summer.
&#34;Now, all of a sudden, you talk about the movement that is burning down cities over 800 buildings in Minneapolis burned to the ground,&#34; Brewer said.
BLACK LIVES MATTER MOVEMENT NOMINATED FOR NOBEL PEACE PRIZE
A 
Norwegian
 lawmaker has nominated the 
Black Lives Matter
 movement for the 2021 
Nobel Peace Prize
 for bringing attention to racial inequities around the world, while dismissing the riots and violence done in the name of the movement.
In his nomination papers, Norwegian MP Petter Eide said the movement forced nations to reckon with racism and other injustices, 
The Guardian
 reported. 
&#34;I find that one of the key challenges we have seen in America, but also in Europe and Asia, is the kind of increasing conflict based on inequality,&#34; he wrote. &#34;Black Lives Matter has become a very important worldwide movement to fight racial injustice. They have had a tremendous achievement in raising global awareness and consciousness about racial injustice.
&#34;They have had a tremendous achievement in raising global awareness and consciousness about racial injustice,&#34; he added. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Nobel Peace Prize nomination for the Black Lives Matter movement is &#34;alarming.&#34;
&#34;It is very representative of what we are seeing in our society today. And that’s good being presented as evil and evil being presented as good. We have to get some clarity in our society. And this is not about the Nobel peace prize. It’s more about liberalism. The only way that you qualify to be nominated for this award is if you support liberal principles. And that’s sad.&#34;
While Black Lives Matter has marched and advocated for racial equality and social justice causes, it has been particularly outspoken about police brutality following deadly police encounters with Black youths and men in recent years. 
The movement came about in 2013 after the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, who shot was by a neighborhood watch volunteer, who was later acquitted. Martin was unarmed.
Fox News&#39; 
Louis Casiano
 contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
