
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
McCarthy joins &#39;The Ingraham Angle&#39; to slam the Democrats defunding border security, he says dems are making our cities unsafe 
Homeland Security Secretary
 Alejandro Mayorkas
 told federal judges this week that the department will once again need to delay a new policy for who can be targeted for 
deportation
, according to a report. 
The 
Biden administration
 is still operating under temporary rules set in February that strictly limit which migrants are eligible to be deported even though DHS said the permanent policy would be written &#34;in less than 90 days,&#34; meaning May, according to the Washington Times. 
April was a record low for the number of monthly deportations, the Washington Post reported in May.
Deportation officers are averaging about one deportation every two months currently despite the surge of migrants at the border, according to The Times. 
&#34;U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has concentrated its limited law enforcement resources on threats to national security, border security, and public safety,&#34; ICE said in a May statement, according to The 
Post
. &#34;This has allowed ICE to focus on the quality of enforcement actions and how they further the security and safety of our communities rather than the simple quantity of arrests and removals.&#34;

      Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro N. Mayorkas speaks at the Wonderland of the Americas COVID-19 vaccination hub on Tuesday, June 29, 2021, to reiterate the importance of getting people vaccinated against COVID-19, and to highlight cooperation between agencies to eradicate the coronavirus. Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, left, and Mayor Ron Nirenberg, middle, listen. (Billy Calzada/The San Antonio Express-News via AP)
      
Mayorkas has said he’s meeting with ICE officials and immigration rights activists to help structure the new deportation policy. 
DHS SECRETARY MAYORKAS DODGES ON WHY KAMALA HARRIS DIDN&#39;T VISIT NEARBY FORT BLISS DURING BORDER TRIP
A timeline set in June for the &#34;beginning of July&#34; has now been postponed to August or September and could be delayed beyond that, The 
Times 
reported. 
Several states have sued over the February rules, arguing they were made too quickly and without proper analysis of the situation at the border. 
&#34;Defendants recognize that their anticipated timeline for the issuance of the new guidance is longer than their original expectation, but the deliberative process for developing the new guidance is extensive and involved,&#34; government lawyers wrote of a Texas lawsuit. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Lawyers for the Texas lawsuit said, &#34;The possibility of new guidance should not delay resolution of Plaintiffs’ pending motion for preliminary injunction, particularly in light of Defendants’ inability to describe what forthcoming guidance would say or when it would issue.&#34; 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
