
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributor Leo Terrell on the recall effort against California Gov. Gavin Newsom gaining over 2 million signatures.
Former 
Trump
 campaign manager Brad Parscale is helping Caitlyn Jenner as she very 
seriously explores
 running for Governor in 
California
, Fox News has learned. 
A source familiar told Fox News that Parscale is helping Jenner. The source said the two have been friends since 2017. 

      Donald Trump&#39;s former campaign manager Brad Parscale and Caitlyn Jenner. 
      
(Reuters/Getty Images)
The source told Fox News Parscale is helping to connect Jenner to &#34;the best talent in the country&#34; as she considers mounting a gubernatorial campaign. 
&#34;She is very, very, very serious,&#34; the source said about Jenner’s potential campaign. 
Jenner, a former Olympic athlete and reality television star, is only the second known person Parscale has helped in politics— the first being former President Trump. 
Before joining Trump’s 2016 campaign, Parscale worked for two decades in the tech industry. The success propelled Parscale to become Trump’s campaign manager in 2020. 
CBS&#39; &#39;60 MINUTES&#39; IGNORES CUOMO SCANDALS, NEWSOM RECALL, IN FAVOR OF WIDELY PANNED DESANTIS HIT PIECE
But in the run-up to the 
2020 presidential election
, Parscale was removed as Trump’s campaign manager amid sinking poll numbers and a series of campaign events that failed to draw large crowds. 
Parscale has since been working on developing 
Campaign Nucleus
, a platform to &#34;protect&#34; conservatives against &#34;cancel culture,&#34; Fox News previously reported. 
The news of Jenner’s possible gubernatorial bid comes as 
California Gov. Gavin Newsom
 is facing the likely prospect of a recall election brought on by his handling of the 
coronavirus
 pandemic. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Organizers of the recall campaign say they have gathered more than 2 million signatures – well above the required threshold to qualify for a ballot – and are now in the process of having those signatures validated. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
