
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Both the left and right want to politicize the courts.
Pro-abortion activists marched on the home of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh on Monday in response to his vote to uphold a 
Texas
 law restricting 
abortion
. 
In videos posted online by Daily Caller journalist Mary Margaret Olohan, protesters can be seen gathering at a park in Chevy Chase, Maryland, before walking over to Kavanaugh’s residence, which appeared to be unoccupied at the time.
COMEDIAN JOHN OLIVER LAUNCHES PROFANITY-LACED TIRADE AGAINST TEXAS ABORTION LAW
At one point, protesters antagonized several police officers who were stationed around Kavanaugh’s home.
The protest was organized by the leftist organization ShutDownDC.
TEXAS ABORTION LAW SHOWCASES &#39;PRONOUNCED&#39; MEDIA BIAS ON DIVISIVE ISSUE, OBSERVERS SAY
&#34;Three years ago, hundreds of women, femmes and allies undertook a month of bold direct action to stop the Senate from confirming accused sexual predator Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court,&#34; the group said on Facebook leading up to the march. &#34;We warned what would happen. And now, in the dead of night, Kavanaugh and four of his colleagues have effectively overturned the right to an abortion. (Although we must acknowledge that the right wing had already succeeded in making abortion largely inaccessible for many people without means and people of color living in certain states.)&#34;
Earlier this month, Kavanaugh joined four other justices in voting to 
deny
 an emergency appeal from abortion providers to stop a Texas law banning abortion at the time a fetal heartbeat can typically be detected. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The 
Biden
 administration has since 
sued
 the state of Texas over the law.
&#34;It is settled constitutional law that ‘a state may not prohibit any woman from making the ultimate decision to terminate her pregnancy before viability,’ but Texas has done just that,&#34; the 
lawsuit
 said.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
