
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox Nation host Tomi Lahren calls out Gavin Newsom for shutting down California, says voters will remember what he did
Left-wing billionaire megadonor George Soros gave another half-million dollars to a group supporting 
embattled
 California Gov. 
Gavin Newsom
, financial disclosure records show. 
Soros gave the organization &#34;Stop the Republican Recall of Governor Newsom&#34; $500,000 in a donation on Monday. Soros had previously given $500,000 to the Democratic group.
SOROS HANDS $1 MILLION TO GROUP ATTEMPTING TO DEFUND POLICE AS VIOLENT CRIME SKYROCKETS NATIONWIDE
While Newsom has enjoyed a considerable 
fundraising advantage
 over his challengers, the race is shaping up to be closer than many had initially anticipated. 
Soros&#39; latest cash infusion into the race comes as conservative radio host Larry Elder is considered the leading challenger to replace Newsom in this month&#39;s recall election. If elected, Elder would be the 
first Black governor
 in California history. 

      California governor recall candidate Larry Elder meets supporters outside of the Warner Center Marriott Woodland Hills in Woodland Hills, California. Elder is considered the leading Republican challenger to Gov. Gavin Newsom in this month&#39;s recall election. 
      
(Hans Gutknecht/MediaNews Group/Los Angeles Daily News via Getty Images)
Democrats have recently 
ramped up attacks
 on Elder, attempting to link his candidacy to former President Trump. 
Newsom slammed Elder in a fundraising email last month, saying that Elder and 
Trump
 are one and the same. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;If this guy is governor during delta it would lead to extraordinary suffering,&#34; Newsom claimed in the email. &#34;His anti-science approach would move our planet backward in the race against a changing climate. He would be a disaster for California.&#34;
The email also referred to Elder as &#34;Larry Trump.&#34;
The California gubernatorial recall election is scheduled for Sept. 14.
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
