
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Border agents
 in 
Texas
 discovered 74 
illegal immigrants
 being smuggled into the U.S. inside travel trailers on Monday, sharing X-Ray images of migrants packed inside compartments.
&#34;The coordination and collaboration between the agents and Texas Department of Public Safety resulted in multiple migrants being rescued from a very dangerous situation,&#34; Big Bend Sector Chief Patrol Agent Sean L. McGoffin said in a statement. &#34;Transnational criminal organizations recruit United States Citizens to facilitate their smuggling schemes, they continue to place lives in danger with little regard for their safety and well-being.&#34;
Agents in the Big Bend Sector conducted a traffic check on a large travel trailer at the Interstate Highway 10 immigration checkpoint in Sierra Blanca, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) 
said in a news release
. Sierra Blanca is located in Hudspeth County, about 20 miles northeast of the Mexico border.
BORDER AGENTS IN DEL RIO SECTOR NAB MIGRANTS WITH CONVICTIONS FOR CHILD MOLESTATION, ATTEMPTED MURDER
After a K-9 unit alerted agents to inspect the trailer, a second truck hauling a trailer drove by. Agents alerted the Texas Department of Public Safety to the possible smuggling scheme and officers performed a traffic stop on the second vehicle, finding multiple people hiding inside the trailer. 
Authorities apprehended a total of 74 illegal immigrants and three U.S. citizens, CBP said. 
The illegal immigrants hailed from countries including Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, and Peru. They were taken into custody and processed accordingly, the CBP said.
Two of the U.S. citizens were turned over to the Texas Department of Public Safety. The third citizen, a juvenile who was driving the second vehicle, was released due to his age.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
To illustrate the dangers of such smuggling methods, Laredo Sector Chief Patrol Agent Matthew Hudak likened it to &#34;being locked inside a metal toolbox&#34; on a hot summer day, warning that &#34;undocumented individuals are packed in compartments not meant to hold people.&#34;
CBP has reported nearly 
930,000
 illegal immigrant encounters at the southern border since January. Through the end of May, agents carried out 7,084 rescues of migrants. 
There were more than 180,000 migrant encounters in May overall, and that number is largely expected to remain around the same level in June.
Fox News’ Adam Shaw contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
