
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Former 
Illinois
 Gov. 
Rod Blagojevich
 – a convicted felon who spent nearly a decade in federal prison – is going to court to be able to get his name back on the ballot.
The then-Democratic governor was arrested in 2008 and accused of corruption and campaign finance violations for seeking political contributions in return for Illinois&#39; U.S. Senate seat left vacant after Sen. 
Barack Obama
 stepped down following his presidential election victory.
BLAGOJEVICH RETURNS TO ILLINOIS AFTER TRUMP COMMUTES SENTENCE
Blagojevich was convicted in 2011 and had served eight years when his 14-year sentence was commuted by 
then-President Donald Trump
 in February 2020.
But the now-64 year old former governor is barred from running for office again. 

      Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich and his wife Patti wave to supporters after a news conference outside his home Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Chicago. On Tuesday, President Donald Trump commuted his 14-year prison sentence for political corruption. (AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast)
      
(AP)
After the Illinois legislature impeached and removed Blagojevich from office following his arrest, the state Senate also passed a resolution preventing him from running for state and local office in the future.
Blagojevich charges that the vote by state lawmakers was unconstitutional, claiming he wasn’t allowed to call and question witnesses and alleges he was prevented from his right to offer potentially exculpatory evidence.
&#34;I’m back from the dead. And it’s good to be alive again,&#34; the former governor told reporters outside a Chicago federal courthouse on Monday.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Blagojevich said his case is &#34;about the people’s right to choose their own leaders.&#34;
&#34;I haven’t thought about running for office,&#34; he added. &#34;But I am not going to rule out any options either.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
