
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News congressional correspondent Chad Pergram reports the latest on the battle over spending package.
Building up resources as it aims to recapture the 
House of Representatives
 majority in 
the 2022 midterms
, the House 
Republican 
reelection arm says it hauled in $12.2 million in 
fundraising
 last month, which it touts is a record for an off-election year.
And the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) also reported early Thursday that it brought in $25.8 million during the July-September third quarter of fundraising. And the committee spotlighted that they’ve raised $105 million from the start of the year through the end of September, which they say is &#34;a massive&#34; 74% increase over the first nine months of 2019, which is the comparable period in the last election cycle. 
HOUSE REPUBLICAN LEADER MCCARTHY’S RECORD SETTING FUNDRAISING HAUL
The NRCC’s fundraising figures, shared first with Fox News and a handful of other news organizations, also put the committee’s cash on hand at $65 million as of Oct. 1, nearly triple the amount they had at this point in the 2020 election cycle.
NRCC chair
 Rep. Tom Emmer 
claimed that &#34;voters are ready to fire Nancy Pelosi and hold the failed Biden Administration accountable.&#34; The Minnesota Republican gave &#34;a special thanks to Leader 
Kevin McCarthy
, Whip S
teve Scalise
, our Republican conference, and the tens of thousands of generous donors who have made these record-breaking fundraising totals possible.&#34; 
And he charged that &#34;House Democrats are sprinting toward the exits because they know their days in the majority are numbered and we look forward to keeping up the pressure.&#34; 
KEEP YOUR EYES ON THESE 32 REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATES RUNNING IN BATTLEGROUND DISTRICTS
The NRCC says its third-quarter fundraising an increase of $10 million from what it brought in during the comparable third quarter from the last election cycle. But the money raised the past three months is down from the committee’s record $45.4 million haul during the April-June second quarter of fundraising. 
The NRCC also spotlighted that McCarthy’s transferred $19.4 million to NRCC so far this year, with House Minority Whip Steve Scalise transferring $10.3 million, and House GOP Conference Chair Elise Stefanik transferring $1.2 million.
The rival Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) has yet to announce its third-quarter figures. The DCCC brought in roughly $36.5 million during the second quarter. And they reported last month that they entered September debt-free, with $53.3 million in their coffers.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
The GOP controlled the House for eight years before losing the majority in the chamber in the 2018 midterms amid a wave by House Democrats. 
But while Republicans lost the White House and their Senate majority in the 2020 contests, in the battle for the House they defied expectations and took a big bite out of the Democrats&#39; majority in November’s elections. The GOP only needs a net gain of five seats in next year’s midterms to regain control of the chamber.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
