
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Data compiled by a nonprofit news organization shows that the city of 
Los Angeles
 spent more on parking enforcement than it generated over the last five years.
The 
report
, compiled by Crosstown, a nonprofit news organization based at the USC Annenberg School of Communication and Journalism, shows the city spent $192 million more in parking and traffic enforcement than it brought in since 2017.

      LOS ANGELES, CA - JANUARY 06: A traffic officer places a ticket on the car of Kim Kardashian on January 06, 2014 in Los Angeles, California.  (Photo by Pixplus/Bauer-Griffin/GC Images)
      
TWITTER ERUPTS WITH SUPPORT FOR IN-N-OUT AFTER COMPANY REFUSES TO ENFORCE VACCINE MANDATE: &#39;#DONOTCOMPLY&#39;
Since the 2017 fiscal year, the city raked in $617 million in parking tickets while spending over $809 million on salaries, equipment, and other enforcement related expenses.
The last two fiscal years, affected by restrictions imposed in response to the coronavirus pandemic, account for the largest shortfall with nearly $121 million more spent on enforcement than generated through citations.
During the 2020-21 fiscal year, which ended on June 30, the city’s Department of Transportation spent $56.4 million more than it took in compared to a shortfall of $64.4 million the previous year.

      WEST HOLLYWOOD, CA - OCTOBER 31:  A participant dressed as Los Angeles parking signs at the West Hollywood Halloween Carnaval on October 31, 2017 in West Hollywood, California.  (Photo by Chelsea Guglielmino/Getty Images)
      
LOS ANGELES MAYOR TO CITY EMPLOYEES: BE PREPARED TO LOSE YOUR JOB IF YOU AREN&#39;T VACCINATED BY DEADLINE
While the shortfall did begin before the pandemic, the data shows that the suspension of parking regulations during the first 8 months of the pandemic contributed to the financial crunch.
In January 2020, there were more than 200,000 tickets issued but three months later that number stood at about 45,000.
The Los Angeles Department of Transportation&#39;s Director of Information, Colin Sweeney, told Crosstown that the department&#39;s costs rose due to a record number of hours of service for a variety of citywide projects.

      LOS ANGELES, CA - SEPTEMBER 13: Jordana Brewster receives a parking ticket on September 13, 2012 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by JB Lacroix/WireImage)
      
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Over the last decade, while revenue from citations has remained within a consistent range, our parking enforcement division has also provided a record number of traffic safety control hours for citywide projects, including street repair and maintenance, the construction and expansion of Metro Transit projects, and homeless encampment clean-ups,&#34; he said.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
