
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The 
FBI 
is investigating whether a U.S. defense contractor illegally directed money to Sen. Susan Collins’s 2020 reelection campaign, Fox News has learned. 
FBI personnel searched electronic devices belonging to Martin Kao, a former CEO of Hawaii defense contractor Navatek, seeking evidence that he orchestrated an effort to funnel alleged illegal contributions to help Collins, a 
Maine 
Republican, in her 2020 reelection bid, according to a recently unsealed search warrant application. 
Authorities also seized cell phones belonging to Kao and colleague Clifford Chen, the document said.
Federal agents requested the warrant, citing evidence that Kao reimbursed friends and family members about $45,000 in donations they made directly to Collins’ campaign, violating a federal law that bans donations made in the name of another person.
VIRGINIA GIRL, 12, REPORTED MISSING, PROMPTING FBI ALERT
Investigators also allege that Kao illegally directed $150,000 in corporate funds to a super PAC supporting Collins&#39; campaign.

      U.S. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, speaks on Capitol Hill, May 12, 2021. (Getty Images)
      
The warrant application doesn’t accuse Collins of any wrongdoing. 
&#34;The Collins for Senator Campaign had absolutely no knowledge of anything alleged in the warrant,&#34; Collins&#39;s communications director Annie Clark told Fox News. 
In 2019, the U.S. Navy Office of Naval Research awarded Navatek – now known as Martin Defense Group -- an $8 million contract to develop safer ship hulls and Collins advocated for that funding, according to a 
news release
 from her office at the time.
&#34;Our company is committed the State of Maine, and thanks to Senator Collins’ support, we have been able to partner with the University of Maine and the State’s boat building ecosystem to address the Navy’s new challenges and needs,&#34; Kao said in the release. 
FBI RESPONDS TO CONGRESSIONAL BASEBALL SHOOTING SURVIVORS, DUBS GUNMAN ‘DOMESTIC VIOLENT EXTREMIST’
Months after the contract was awarded, an entity called the Society of Young Women Scientists and Engineers LLC made a $150,000 donation to the pro-Collins super PAC called 1820 PAC, reports said. Kao and his wife are accused of creating the fraudulent LLC, which backed Collins, according to the warrant application.
According to the FBI, bank records indicate that Kao reimbursed several family members for their donations to the Collins for Senator campaign committee.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Kao was 
charged last year
 with fraudulently obtaining millions in coronavirus-relief funds. 
Fox News&#39; Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
