
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Secretary of State Antony Blinken takes question on Afghanistan evacuation
Secretary of State
 Antony Blinken was vacationing in the Hamptons just hours before Taliban insurgents invaded Kabul and completed their retaking of 
Afghanistan
 20 years after their ouster by U.S.-led 
forces
, according to a new report.
According to a detailed timeline of the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul 
compiled by The Washington Post
, the actions by U.S. officials in the days leading up to the collapse suggested &#34;no immediate cause for alarm,&#34; with many of them &#34;surrendering to the customary rhythms of Washington in August.&#34;
WHITE HOUSE IN CHAOS  STRUGGLES TO KEEP BIDEN ON TIME
Blinken, like other U.S. officials, had to be called back from his vacation once things started rapidly deteriorating in Afghanistan, the report said.
&#34;By August, the dominant view was that the Taliban wasn’t likely to pose a serious threat to Kabul until late fall,&#34; The Post reported. &#34;On the Friday afternoon before Kabul fell, the White House was starting to empty out, as many of the senior staff prepared to take their first vacations of Biden’s young presidency. Earlier in the day, Biden had arrived at Camp David, and Secretary of State Antony Blinken was already in the Hamptons.&#34;
Biden has faced widespread criticism over his execution of the military withdrawal and his actions during and after the collapse of Kabul. The president has repeatedly defended his plan to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan, while hundreds of U.S. citizens and tens of thousands of Afghan allies and Afghans vulnerable to Taliban reprisal remain stranded in the country. A State Department spokesman said Sunday that 250 American citizens remain in Afghanistan, three days after ISIS-K terrorists attacked the airport in Kabul, killing 13 U.S. service members and more than 170 Afghans.
Biden assured Americans just last month that a Taliban takeover of Afghanistan was not likely and that he trusted &#34;the capacity of the Afghan military.&#34; The president 
largely avoided cameras
 during the debacle, watching the Aug. 15 fall of Kabul unfold from the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Three days after the Kabul collapse, Biden was fiercely criticized after he gave public remarks about 
COVID-19
 and failed to address the situation in Afghanistan or take any questions. On Tuesday, his remarks from the 
White House
 were delayed more than four hours after being rescheduled twice, and the U.S. evacuation effort in Afghanistan was the last topic he addressed after touting his Build Back Better agenda.  
Meanwhile, White House press secretary Jen Psaki 
had
 an &#34;out of the office&#34; email message for one week starting the same day Kabul collapsed, but returned to the White House the next day. Fox News reached out to the White House Sunday for a separate story and White House deputy press secretary Andrew Bates currently has an &#34;out of the office&#34; auto-reply message from Aug. 28 through Sept. 5. The auto-reply directs the press to reach out to other press officers in his absence.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
