
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Three men, including an alleged MS-13 member, have been arrested and charged in New York murder. Sabine Durden-Coulter, mother of son killed by an illegal immigrant, reacts on &#39;Fox &amp;amp; Friends First.&#39;
Border Patrol
 agents in Texas picked up three convicted child sex offenders among groups of illegal immigrants in just two days -- the latest sign of the potential dangers posed by the migrant surge at the southern border.
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) said that Border Patrol in Brownsville apprehended a group of nine illegal immigrants on Tuesday. That group included a Honduran national with a conviction in Minnesota for criminal sex conduct with a minor under the age of 13.
BORDER PATROL AGENTS IN TEXAS DISCOVER 18 ADULTS, 2 KIDS HIDING UNDER A TRUCK&#39;S TRAILER BOARDS
On Wednesday, agents in McAllen stopped 15 illegal immigrants -- including another Honduran who had been arrested in Virginia and charged with aggravated sexual battery of a victim under 13. He was convicted and sentenced to five years. 
A CBP release included a disturbing detail that the Honduran was traveling as part of a group that included two children traveling without a guardian.
Later in the day, Border Patrol agents in Rio Grande City apprehended another group of illegal immigrants near Roma, which included an El Salvadoran who had been charged with aggravated child molestation in Georgia. He was convicted and also sentenced to five years in jail. He too was traveling as part of a group that included an unaccompanied child.
VIDEO SHOWS SMUGGLER DROPPING 2-YEAR-OLD FROM TOP OF BORDER WALL
&#34;Even with the spread of the COVID-19 virus, human smugglers continue to try these brazen attempts with zero regard for the lives they endanger nor to the health of the citizens of our great nation,&#34; CBP said in a statement.
The shocking details come amid a surge in migrant encounters at the border, with 172,000 migrants encountered in March alone. While single adults and some family units are being returned, there has also been an increase in unaccompanied children -- which has overwhelmed officials.
Some agents and officials have estimated that, even with the surge in apprehensions, there are more than 1,000 illegal immigrants who evade capture and make it into the U.S. every day.
MIGRANT SMUGGLERS USING GROUPS OF CHILDREN TO DIVERT BORDER PATROL FROM ADULTS CROSSING INTO US, AGENTS SAY 
Meanwhile, 
sources have told Fox News
 that smugglers will dump unaccompanied children in one part of the border to overwhelm law enforcement, so another group of adults can sneak into the country elsewhere -- including through unfinished parts of the border wall.
CBP officials have been releasing shocking details of what they are encountering at the border -- including videos of smugglers dumping young children over border wall.
Earlier this week Chief Patrol Agent Austin Skero of the Del Rio Sector 
tweeted photos
 of illegal immigrants packed in a trailer so tight they were nearly lying atop one another with barely room to move.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Most of them held their arms down along their body to make more room in the space that appeared to be no more than 18 inches deep.
&#34;With temperatures on the rise, smuggling attempts like these have a high potential to turn deadly,&#34; he said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
