
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., on the 13 U.S. service members getting killed in Kabul bombings.
House Minority Leader 
Kevin McCarthy
, R-Calif., left open the possibility that 
Republicans
 would seek to impeach 
President Biden
 over his handling of the troop withdrawal in 
Afghanistan
 that cost at least 13 American service members their lives. 
Already several Republicans in Congress have publicly called for Biden&#39;s resignation or impeachment surrounding the deadly 
suicide bombing attack
 at the Kabul airport Thursday. 
At a news conference Friday, McCarthy sidestepped a direct question on whether he backs those efforts, but signaled the president will be held accountable at some point. 
&#34;I&#39;m extremely frustrated with this president,&#34; McCarthy told reporters at the Capitol. 
&#34;There will be a day of reckoning,&#34; he added.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS INTRODUCING ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT FOR SECRETARY OF STATE BLINKEN
McCarthy, who is banking on Republicans retaking the House in 2022 and becoming the next House Speaker, said Biden has &#34;lost&#34; the faith, trust and confidence of the American public. But he said the immediate concern right now is getting Americans safely out of Afghanistan by Biden&#39;s Aug. 31 withdrawal deadline. 
He called on House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
, D-Calif., to bring Congress back into session so members could get another Biden administration briefing on the situation in Afghanistan. Pelosi arranged a briefing for all members already earlier this week on Tuesday, but McCarthy said lawmakers should be back in Washington for another because there are so many unanswered questions. 
BIDEN ADMIN TEETERING AMID CALLS TO RESIGN, POTENTIAL INVESTIGATIONS OVER US DEATHS IN AFGHANISTAN
Pelosi said Thursday that congressional leaders were also briefed by Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and &#34;further conversations among top Administration officials and Congress will be ongoing.&#34;
McCarthy also urged Pelosi to allow a vote on legislation authored by Rep. 
Mike Gallagher
, R-Wis., that would aim to block Biden from withdrawing troops by Aug. 31. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
He accused Biden of being the only president – Republican or Democrat – that would allow the Taliban to dictate the terms of U.S. troop removal in Afghanistan and said Biden&#39;s speech to the nation Thursday night following the terrorist attack on U.S. service members was &#34;a picture of weakness and incompetence.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
