
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Mark 
McCloskey
, a 
St. Louis
 attorney who, along with his wife, 
armed
 himself and confronted Black Lives Matter 
protesters
 outside their home last summer, said he is considering a run for a 
U.S. Senate
 seat.
&#34;I can confirm that it’s a consideration, yes,&#34; McCloskey told Politico on Tuesday.
U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., previously announced he is retiring after serving in the Senate since 2011. Blunt, 71, previously served in the U.S. House for 14 years and is a former Missouri secretary of state.
The McCloskeys made headlines last June after video emerged of them toting guns in defense of their home as protesters headed toward the house of then-St. Louis Mayor Lyda Krewson.
They were both charged last year with unlawful use of weapons as well as tampering with evidence.
MISSOURI COURT REJECTS PROSECUTOR KIM GARDNER&#39;S APPEAL IN MCCLOSKEY GUN CASE

      Armed homeowners Mark and Patricia McCloskey stand outside their house as they confront protesters marching to St. Louis Mayor Lyda Krewson&#39;s house Sunday, June 28, 2020. (Getty Images)
      
The McCloskeys attracted support from then-President Trump and 
Missouri
 Attorney General Eric Schmitt, who filed a brief on their behalf. 
Schmitt has said he is also considering running for the Senate
. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The couple even spoke during the 2020 Republican National Convention where they championed Second Amendment rights and warned that Democrats want to protect &#34;Marxist, liberal activists&#34; who protest and riot in neighborhoods across the country and want to &#34;abolish the suburbs.&#34;

      U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., who has served in the Senate since 2011, has announced plans to retire.
      
Mark McCloskey told 
Politico
 he didn&#39;t have a timetable for making his decision about running. 
Several others have eyed the forthcoming U.S. Senate vacancy in Missouri, including former Republican Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
