
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News senior strategic analyst Jack Keane discusses security precautions for the event on ‘America’s Newsroom.’
Acting 
Secretary of Defense
 Chris Miller said in a statement on Monday that the Department of Defense has not received any intelligence indicating a potential insider threat to the 
inauguration
 of 
President-elect Joe Biden
 on Jan. 20.
However, Miller added that the department is &#34;leaving no stone unturned in securing the capital,&#34; noting that all National Guardsmen deployed to Washington, D.C. will be vetted. 
&#34;This type of vetting often takes place by law enforcement for significant security events. However, in this case the scope of military participation is unique,&#34; Miller 
said
. &#34;The D.C. National Guard is also providing additional training to service members as they arrive in D.C. that if they see or hear something that is not appropriate, they should report it to their chain of command. We appreciate the support of the FBI in assisting with this task and for each of the more than 25,000 Guardsmen who answered their Nation’s call and rapidly deployed to the [National Capital Region].&#34;
The announcement comes after defense officials expressed concerns over the potential for an insider attack, following a 
riot at the Capitol
 on Jan. 6 by pro-Trump protesters that left five dead and resulted in dozens of arrests.
The 
FBI warned in a memo
 earlier this month of potential plans for protests staged in all 50 state capitals which could occur before, on and after Inauguration Day.  
INSIDER ATTACK FEARED DAYS BEFORE BIDEN&#39;S INAUGURATION, SERVICE MEMBERS IN DC VETTED BY FBI
While members from across the military were at President Trump’s rally prior to the riot, Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy told the Associated Press it&#39;s unclear how many were there or who may have participated in the breach at the Capitol.
The U.S. Army said in a statement on Sunday that it would work with the Secret Service to determine if any service members on hand needed additional background screening. As part of the Threat Awareness and Reporting Program, military personnel are required to report &#34;any information regarding known or suspected extremist behavior that could be a threat to the department or the U.S.&#34;
&#34;Any type of activity that involves violence, civil disobedience, or a breach of peace may be punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice or under state or federal law,&#34; the Army’s statement read.
The Associated Press reported that the Secret Service is in charge of event security. In addition to the National Guard and the FBI, Washington&#39;s Metropolitan Police Department, U.S. Capitol Police and U.S. Park Police will also be involved in the inauguration ceremony. 
The bulk of the National Guard members at the inauguration will be armed.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
McCarthy said that Guard units are going through repeated drills to practice when and how to use force and how to work quickly with law enforcement partners, including &#34;constant mental repetitions of looking at the map and talking through scenarios with leaders so they understand their task and purpose, they know their routes, they know where they’re friendly, adjacent units are, they have the appropriate frequencies to communicate with their law enforcement partners.&#34;
Law enforcement officers would make any arrests.
He noted that the key goal is for America’s transfer of power to happen without incident.
&#34;This is a national priority. We have to be successful as an institution,&#34; said McCarthy. &#34;We want to send the message to everyone in the United States and for the rest of the world that we can do this safely and peacefully.&#34;
Fox News&#39; Jennifer Griffin, Edmund DeMarche and the Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
