
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Candace Owens reacts to self-proclaimed &#39;Marxist&#39; Patrice Khan-Cullors&#39; real estate investments on &#39;Tucker Carlson Tonight&#39;
A social justice nonprofit chaired by Black Lives Matter co-founder 
Patrisse Cullors
 is moving to operate in other states as it avoids filing required financial documents in 
California
, filings show.
Cullors’ nonprofit, Dignity and Power Now, was warned by California’s attorney general’s office in March over its failure to file all the required financial documents for 2019. According to state records, Dignity and Power Now is currently delinquent in California, where it is incorporated.
&#34;A delinquent organization may not engage in any activity for which registration is required, including solicitation or disbursing of charitable assets,&#34; 
reads
 an earlier warning sent to Cullors’ nonprofit from California’s Registry of Charitable Trusts, which was first 
reported
 by the Daily Signal. 
But as the nonprofit remains in a delinquent state, records show that the organization has been active as it continues sidestepping its required financial forms. Just weeks after receiving its latest warning, Dignity and Power Now 
submitted
 an Application for Certificate of Authority on April 1 with North Carolina’s secretary of state’s office to conduct business in the state. Cullors is listed as an officer in the documents.
&#34;As a condition of their tax-exempt status, nonprofit groups are required by the IRS and state regulators to disclose significant information about their finances,&#34; said Peter Flaherty, chairman of the National Legal and Policy Center. &#34;It is important for groups soliciting donations to file accurately and on time.&#34; 
Dignity and Power Now, which formed in 2012, has failed to file an audited financial statement to accompany the group’s 2019 tax forms, which did not include the required signature of an officer. An audited financial statement is conducted by an independent outside party to attest to the accuracy of all of the financial information that is shown in a group’s tax forms. Dignity and Power Now did not respond to a request for comment.
&#34;When a nonprofit that engages in advocacy is supported by a small number of wealthy individuals or big corporations, disclosure is even more important so the public can make its own judgements about whether there is a hidden agenda,&#34; Flaherty said. &#34;When it comes to state-level regulation of charities, filing delinquencies and problems in one state can definitely affect a nonprofit&#39;s standing in others.&#34;
Cullors’ nonprofit does not identify its donors in the tax forms it has disclosed, but the Washington Free Beacon 
reported
 that between 2017 and 2020, Dignity and Power Now received $2.8 million from the charitable vehicles of Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz. Moskovitz also provided more than $2.3 million to Reform L.A. Jails, another group founded by Cullors. Reform L.A. Jails paid Cullors’s consulting firm, Janaya and Patrisse Consulting, more than $20,000 a month as she served as its chair, the 
Daily Caller
 reported.

      Patrisse Cullors&#39; new home, which features three bedrooms and three bathrooms, is nestled in Topanga Canyon and has a separate guesthouse on the property.
      
(Getty Images, Google Maps)
Moskovitz and his wife, Cari Tuna, have been ardent financial backers of left-wing social justice groups. Tuna has 
bankrolled
 Black Lives Matters activist Shaun King’s Real Justice PAC, which has also paid Cullors’ consulting firm 
$78,000
 for management and strategy services, Federal Election Commission records show. 
Moskovtiz’s donations received attention after Facebook recently moved to censor critical stories on Cullors’ $3.2 million real-estate buying binge that included the BLM leader scooping up four homes. Cullors also allegedly eyed property in the Bahamas at a ritzy resort where Justin Timberlake and Tiger Woods own homes, the 
New York Post
 reported.
It is unclear where all of Cullors’ cash is coming from, but last year the self-proclaimed Marxist 
landed
 a Warner Brothers TV production deal to &#34;raise Black voices on streaming services and traditional TV channels.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Dignity and Power Now did not report any payments directly to Cullors in its rejected tax forms, and she claims that the BLM Global Network Foundation, the main nonprofit in the BLM network, does not give her a salary. The nonprofit said it raised $90 million in 2020.
The BLM Global Network Foundation, however, is fiscally sponsored by Thousand Currents, meaning it is not required to file tax forms showing its detailed cash flow. All of the reported payments to Cullors so far have gone to her consulting firm and not directly to her in the form of a salary. 
BLM Global Network Foundation did not respond to a request for comment on if they had paid her consulting firm at any point. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
