
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Building up resources as it aims to recapture the 
House of Representatives
 majority in 
the 2022 midterms
, the House 
Republican 
reelection arm says it hauled in a record $20.1 in 
fundraising
 last month.
And the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) also reported early Wednesday that it brought in a record $45.4 million during the April-June second quarter of fundraising. 
SENATE GOP REELECTION ARM HAULS IN FUNDRAISING RECORD IN JUNE
The committee touted that the June fundraising was its fourth straight record-breaking month, and that its haul the past three months was its largest off-election year quarter in NRCC history. The committee also showcased that it brought in $79.2M the first six months of 2021, far surpassing the $44.5M raised during the first six months of 2019, the similar period during the last election cycle. And it noted that the 2021 haul was the best first-half fundraising total in committee history.
The NRCC also spotlighted that it had $55 million in its coffers at the end of June, more than double the $25.6 million cash on hand it had at the same point in the last election cycle.
&#34;We will take back the majority next fall and voters are doing everything they can to help us accomplish that goal,&#34; NRCC chair 
Rep. Tom Emmer
 of Minnesota said in a statement.
HOUSE GOP REELECTION CHAIR SPOTLIGHTS SURGE IN REPUBLICAN 2022 CANDIDATES
The rival 
Democratic
 Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) reported last week that it brought in $36.5 million the past three months, roughly $9 million shy of the NRCC’s haul, which included a $5 million transfer from the Republican National Committee. The DCCC also reported raising $14.4 million in June, with $44 million cash on hand, around $11 million less than what the NRCC reported having in its coffers.

      House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy of Calif., speaks during his weekly press briefing on Capitol Hill, Thursday, April 22, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
      
The NRCC’s second quarter take includes $6.58 million transferred to the committee from House Minority Leader 
Rep. Kevin McCarthy 
of California and $4.5 million from House Minority Whip
 Rep. Steve Scalise
 of Louisiana.
&#34;Our record-breaking fundraising total wouldn’t have been possible without the leadership of Leader Kevin McCarthy, Whip Steve Scalise, our Republican conference, and the tens of thousands of generous donors who have contributed to our mission,&#34; Emmer noted.
And he argued that &#34;every vulnerable House Democrat should be eyeing the exits because if they choose to run, they will lose.&#34;
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
The GOP controlled the House for eight years before losing the majority in the chamber in the 2018 midterms amid a wave by House Democrats. But while Republicans lost the White House and their Senate majority in the 2020 contests, in the battle for the House they defied expectations and took a big bite out of the Democrats&#39; majority in November’s elections. The GOP only needs a net gain of five seats in next year’s midterms to regain control of the chamber.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
