
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sen. Tom Cotton, Ark., reacts to the response from Health and Human Services regarding unaccompanied migrants being flown across the U.S.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki claimed that unaccompanied 
illegal immigrant
 children being flown from the southern border to suburban 
New York
 at 2:30 a.m. were not being flown &#34;in the middle of the night.&#34;
&#34;Why is the administration flying thousands of migrants from the border to Florida &amp; New York in the middle of the night?&#34; Fox News’ Peter Doocy asked Psaki on Tuesday.

      Migrants from the southern border arrive at Westchester County Airport. 
      
(New York Post/Christopher Sadowski)
MIDNIGHT RUNS: BIDEN SECRETLY FLYING UNDERAGE MIGRANTS INTO NY IN THE DEAD OF NIGHT
&#34;Well, I&#39;m not sure that it&#39;s in the middle of the night,&#34; Psaki responded, before being cut off by Doocy who read the flight times aloud.
&#34;2:30 a.m., 4:29 a.m.,&#34; Doocy said before Psaki interrupted him saying, &#34;Here we are talking about early flights, earlier than you might like to take a flight.&#34;
LEAKED BORDER PATROL DOCS SHOW MASS RELEASE OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS INTO US BY BIDEN ADMINISTRATION
&#34;It is our legal responsibility to safely care for unaccompanied children until they can be swiftly reunited with a parent or a vetted sponsor,&#34; Psaki added. &#34;In recent weeks, unaccompanied children have passed through the Westchester airport...en route to their final destination to be reunited with their parents or vetted sponsor. It’s no surprise that kids can be seen travelling through states, it’s not just New York.&#34;

      Migrants seen after getting off a plane in Westchester, New York.
      
(New York Post/Christopher Sadowski)
The New York Post 
reported
 on Monday that planeloads of unaccompanied underage migrants have been secretly flown in the middle of the night into suburban New York on charter flights from Texas.
The report stated that around 2,000 illegal immigrants have landed at a New York airport outside of White Plains on 21 flights since Aug. 8.
Records show that many of those planes landed between midnight and 6:30 a.m. 
At least 160,000 illegal immigrants have been 
released
 into the 
U.S.
, often with little to no supervision, by the 
Biden administration
 since March – including a broad use of limited parole authorities to make more than 30,000 eligible for work permits since August, Border Patrol documents obtained by Fox News show.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Since March 20, at least 94,570 illegal immigrants have been released into the U.S. with Notices to Report. Those who receive such a notice are only required to check in with an U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) office when they get to their final destination – which could be anywhere across the country. Those who check in are not deported or detained as their immigration proceedings move forward.
Fox News’ Bill Melugin and Adam Shaw contributed to this report.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
