
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Safety on the subway is on the minds of likely New York City Democratic 
primary voters
 as they prepare to head to the ballot boxes and according to recent polling, 
Black voters
 are the most concerned.  
An NBC/Telemundo 47/POLITICO/Marist 
Poll
 found that 77% of Black Democratic primary voters believe the number of uniformed police officers in the subways should be increased.
AOC ENDORSES PROGRESSIVE MAYA WILEY IN NEW YORK CITY MAYORAL CONTEST
Only 14% of Black Democratic primary voters said they did not think police presence on the subway should increase, while another 10% said they were unsure.
The Latino community similarly agreed with 69% of respondents saying they would like to see an increased presence of uniformed police on the city’s public transportation system. 
Among White voters, 62% said they feel the police presence should be increased on the subway.
Of New York City&#39;s five boroughs, voters in the Bronx saw subway safety as the most pressing issue with 81% of respondents there throwing their support behind the increase in security. 
NYPD CAPTAINS UNION ENDORSES YANG FOR MAYOR OVER EX-COP ADAMS
When it comes to how law enforcement could better police the streets, voters are more divided. 
Roughly one-in-three voters in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan said they support diverting funds from police to bolster mental health programs instead. 
Staten Island voters were not included in the survey. 
Twenty-one percent of respondents were split on whether there should be an increase in uniformed police officers hitting the streets, or if plain
-
clothed officers should instead target high crime areas. 
Another 17% of Democratic primary voters want funds to be used to help resolve conflicts between gang members.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Ultimately respondents were divided on New York City’s prospects with 44% saying they believe the city is moving in the right direction, while another 44% said the city was moving in the wrong direction. 
Early voting for the primary election launched June 12 and will last through June 20. The primary election is set for June 22.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
