
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The annual 
Conservative Political Action Conference 
 (CPAC) is slated to run through Sunday and a number of high-profile conservatives will take the stage to share conservative ideas with the crowd. 
Former President Trump will give his first public address since leaving office at the conference in Orlando, Fla., headlining Sunday’s events. 
Here are a few of the
 notable conservatives
 who will speak: 
Friday
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis
Sen. Mike Lee, Utah 
Former Gov. Scott Walker, Wisc. 
Sen. James Lankford, Okla.
Former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi 
Sen. Ted Cruz, Texas
Rep. Mo Brooks, Ala. 
Rep. Madison Cawthorn, N.C. 
Sen. Tom Cotton, Ark. 
Sen. Marsha Blackburn, Tenn. 
Rep. Matt Gaetz, Fla. 
Sen. Rick Scott, Fla. 
Sen. Josh Hawley, Mo. 
Donald Trump Jr. 
TRUMP, AT CPAC, EXPECTED TO HAMMER BIDEN ON IMMIGRATION, CHINA 
Saturday
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton 
Amb. Ric Grenell 
Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
Sen. Bill Hagerty, Tenn. 
Amb. Robert Lighthizer 
Rep. Devin Nunes, Calif. 
Sen. Cynthia Lummis, Wyo. 
Rep. Burgess Owens, Utah
Rep. Darrell Issa, Calif. 
Rep. Andy Biggs, Ariz.
Rep. Lauren Boebert, Colo.
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Calif. 
South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem 
Sunday
Former White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders
Former Ark. Gov. Mike Huckabee
Former National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow 
Former President Trump 
Markedly absent from the conference are conservatives who spoke out against the president in light of the Jan. 6 Capitol riot. None of the Republicans who voted for Trump&#39;s impeachment will speak. 
Sen. Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., was not invited to the conference, CPAC sources told 
McClatchy.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Former Vice President Mike Pence declined an invite to speak, as he plans to take a break from the public stage over the next few months. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., was invited to this year&#39;s conference but also declined, as he has in recent years. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
