
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The Transportation Department’s watchdog asked the 
Justice Department
 to criminally investigate 
Elaine Chao
 late last year after it determined she had misused her office when she was transportation secretary under 
President Donald Trump
 but was rebuffed, according to a report released Wednesday.
The report said the Justice Department’s criminal and public integrity divisions declined in December to take up the case for criminal prosecution following the inspector general’s findings that Chao inappropriately used her staff and office for personal tasks and to promote a shipping business owned by Chao’s father and sisters. That company does extensive business with China.
&#34;A formal investigation into potential misuses of position was warranted,&#34; deputy inspector general Mitch Behm wrote in a letter to lawmakers.
CAPITOL RIOTING FORCES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY ELAINE CHAO TO RESIGN
Chao, the wife of Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, stepped down from her job early this year in the last weeks of the Trump administration, citing her disapproval over the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol by Trump’s supporters.

      Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, right, with U.S. Maritime Administration Administrator Mark Buzby, left, speaks to reporters outside the West Wing of the White House following President Donald Trump&#39;s signing of the executive order supporting the transition of active duty service members and military veterans into the Merchant Marine, Monday, March 4, 2019, in Washington. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
      
(AP)
Chao has denied wrongdoing. In the report released Wednesday, she did not specifically respond to allegations, instead providing a September 2020 memo that argued promoting her family was an appropriate part of her official duties at the department.
&#34;Asian audiences welcome and respond positively to actions by the secretary that include her father in activities when appropriate,&#34; that memo said.
The watchdog report cited several instances that raised ethical concerns. In one, Chao instructed political appointees in the department to contact the Homeland Security Department to check personally on the status of a work permit application for a student who was a recipient of her family’s philanthropic foundation.
Chao also made extensive plans for an official trip to China in November 2017 — before she canceled it — that would have included stops at places that had received support from her family’s business, the New York-based Foremost Group. According to department emails, Chao directed her staff to include her relatives in the official events and high-level meetings during the trip.
&#34;Above all, let’s keep (the Secretary) happy,&#34; one of the department’s employees wrote to another staffer regarding Chao’s father. &#34;If Dr. Chao is happy, then we should be flying with a feather in our hat.&#34;
The report found that Chao also directed the department’s public affairs staff to assist her father in the marketing of his personal biography and to edit his Wikipedia page, and used staff to check on repairs of an item at a store for her father.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The IG report said Justice Department officials ultimately declined to take up a criminal review, saying there &#34;may be ethical and/or administrative issues&#34; but no evidence to support possible criminal charges.
As a result, the inspector general’s office said in the report it was now closing its investigation &#34;based on the lack of prosecutorial interest&#34; from the Justice Department.
Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Oregon, chairman of the House transportation committee, who requested the investigation, expressed disappointment that the review was not completed and released while Chao was still in office.
&#34;Public servants, especially those responsible for leading tens of thousands of other public servants, must know that they serve the public and not their family’s private commercial interests,&#34; he said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
