
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Mike Gravel, a former 
U.S. senator
 from 
Alaska
 who read the 
Pentagon
 Papers into the Congressional Record and confronted 
Barack Obama
 about nuclear weapons during a later presidential run, has died. He was 91.
Gravel, who represented 
Alaska
 as a 
Democrat
 in the 
Senate 
from 1969 to 1981, died Saturday, according to his daughter, Lynne Mosier. Gravel had been living in Seaside, California, and was in failing health, said Theodore W. Johnson, a former aide.
Gravel’s two terms came during tumultuous years for 
Alaska
, when construction of the trans-Alaska oil pipeline was authorized and when 
Congress
 was deciding how to settle Alaska Native land claims and whether to classify enormous amounts of federal land as parks, preserves and monuments.

      FILE - Former Democratic U.S. senator Mike Gravel gestures while talking to &#34;Occupy&#34; activists at Lindenhof square in Zurich, Switzerland, in this Monday, Oct. 31, 2011, file photo. Gravel, a former U.S. senator from Alaska who read the Pentagon Papers into the Congressional Record and confronted Barack Obama about nuclear weapons during a later presidential run, has died. He was 91. Gravel, who represented Alaska as a Democrat in the Senate from 1969 to 1981, died Saturday, June 26, 2021. Gravel had been living in Seaside, California, and was in failing health, said Theodore W. Johnson, a former aide. (AP Photo/Keystone, Steffen Schmidt, File)
      
TRUMP RETURNS TO CAMPAIGN TRAIL TO TARGET GOP RE. ANTHONY GONZAELZ, WHO VOTED FOR IMPEACCHMENT
He had the unenviable position of being an 
Alaska Democrat 
when some residents were burning 
President Jimmy Carter
 in effigy for his measures placing large sections of public lands in the state under protection from development.
Gravel feuded with 
Alaska’s
 other senator, 
Republican Ted Stevens
, on the land matter, preferring to fight Carter’s actions and rejecting Stevens’ advocacy for a compromise.
In the end, Congress passed the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980, a compromise that set aside millions of acres for national parks, wildlife refuges and other protected areas. It was one of the last bills Carter signed before leaving office.
Gravel’s Senate tenure also was notable for his anti-war activity. In 1971, he led a one-man filibuster to protest the Vietnam-era draft and he read into the Congressional Record 4,100 pages of the 7,000-page leaked document known as the Pentagon Papers, the Defense Department&#39;s history of the country&#39;s early involvement in Vietnam.
Gravel re-entered national politics decades after his time in the Senate to twice run for president. Gravel, then 75, and his wife, Whitney, took public transportation in 2006 to announce he was running for president as a Democrat in the 2008 election ultimately won by Obama.
He launched his quest for the 
2008 Democratic presidential
 nomination as a critic of the Iraq war.
&#34;I believe America is doing harm every day our troops remain in Iraq — harm to ourselves and to the prospects for peace in the world,&#34; Gravel said in 2006. He hitched his campaign to an effort that would give all policy decisions to the people through a direct vote, including health care reform and declarations of war.
Gravel garnered attention for his fiery comments at 
Democratic
 forums.

      FILE - Democratic presidential hopefuls former Alaska Sen. Mike Gravel, left, and Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., talk on stage during a break in the ABC News Democratic candidates debate at Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, in this Sunday, Aug. 19, 2007, file photo. Gravel, a former U.S. senator from Alaska who read the Pentagon Papers into the Congressional Record and confronted Barack Obama about nuclear weapons during a later presidential run, has died. He was 91. Gravel, who represented Alaska as a Democrat in the Senate from 1969 to 1981, died Saturday, June 26, 2021. Gravel had been living in Seaside, California, and was in failing health, said Theodore W. Johnson, a former aide. (AP Photo/Charlie Neibergall, File)
      
LARRY ELDER: VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS, WHEN WILL YOU TALK ABOUT THE ‘ROOT CAUSE’ OF HOMICIDES IN OUR CITIES?
In one 2007 debate, the issue of the possibility of using nuclear weapons against Iran came up, and Gravel confronted then-Sen. Obama. &#34;Tell me, Barack, who do you want to nuke?&#34; Gravel said. Obama replied: &#34;I’m not planning to nuke anybody right now, Mike.&#34;
Gravel then ran as a Libertarian candidate after he was excluded from later 
Democratic
 debates.
In an email to supporters, he said the 
Democratic Party
 &#34;no longer represents my vision for our great country.&#34; &#34;It is a party that continues to sustain war, the military-industrial complex and imperialism — all of which I find anathema to my views,&#34; he said.
He failed to get the Libertarian nomination.
Gravel briefly sought the 
Democratic
 nomination for president in 2020. He again criticized American wars and vowed to slash military spending. His last campaign was notable in that both his campaign manager and chief of staff were just 18 at the time of his short-lived candidacy.
&#34;There was never any ... plan that he would do anything more than participate in the debates. He didn&#39;t plan to campaign, but he wanted to get his ideas before a larger audience,&#34; Johnson said.
Gravel failed to qualify for the debates. He endorsed Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders in the contest eventually won by now-
President Joe Biden
.
Gravel was born Maurice Robert Gravel in 
Springfield, Massachusetts
, on May 13, 1930.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In Alaska, he served as a state representative, including a stint as House speaker, in the mid-1960s.
He won his 
first Senate
 term after defeating incumbent Sen. Ernest Gruening, a former territorial governor, in the 1968 Democratic primary.
Gravel served two terms until he was defeated in the 1980 
Democratic primary
 by Gruening’s grandson, Clark Gruening, who lost the election to Republican Frank Murkowski.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
