
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Long Island homeowner Suzanne Antolini tells &#39;America&#39;s Newsroom&#39; that she is owed $50,000 from an employed tenant that has refused to pay rent since the start of the pandemic.
Groups against 
President Biden
’s new 
coronavirus
 eviction moratorium appealed one day after a 
federal judge
 ruled it could stand, according to reports. 
Two chapters of the National Association of Realtors and a group of 
landlords 
requested &#34;immediate&#34; action from the Washington, D.C. Court of Appeals on Saturday and may get a ruling by the end of next week, according to Politico. 
D.C. District Judge Dabney Friedrich, a Trump appointee, ruled Friday the scaled-back ban could stay in place because of a June appeals ruling that kept the previous version in place and that the U.S. 
Supreme Court
 didn’t reverse. She did say, however, she believed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had overstepped its authority in issuing the ban. 
The moratorium, meant to shield renters struggling during the pandemic, expired at the end of July but the Biden administration reissued the ban after pressure from progressives. 
DEROY MURDOCK: BIDEN&#39;S EVICTION MORATORIUM REVEALS REVEALS DEMS&#39; UTTER CONTEMPT FOR RULE OF LAW, CONSTITUTION
The issue will likely make it to the Supreme Court, Politico reported. 

      Demonstrators gather during a protest against the expiration of the eviction moratorium outside of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Sunday, Aug. 1, 2021. (Getty Images)
      
Landlords have railed against the extension, which many have said is helping renters at their expense and in turn leaving them in financial strife. 
&#34;Given the President’s statement that this extension of the moratorium and any litigation in its defense are meant to buy time to keep an unlawful policy in place for as long as possible, this Court should issue an immediate administrative order vacating the stay while it considers this motion,&#34; lawyers wrote in the motion, citing a claim Biden made that his reissuing of the policy would nullify any decision in the courts, according to 
Politico
. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The three appeals judges are Obama, Trump and Biden appointees. 
&#34;The Administration believes that CDC’s new moratorium is a proper use of its lawful authority to protect the public health,&#34; White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Friday after the first ruling, according to 
CNBC
. &#34;We are pleased that the district court left the moratorium in place, though we are aware that further proceedings in this case are likely.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
