
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Arkansas
, 
Mississippi
 and other red states that have taken legislative action to limit transgender athletes in girls&#39; 
sports
 say they are ready to defend their laws in court.
&#34;Mississippi passed a law this year based on the basic premise that girls, and only girls, should play in girls’ sports. The ink wasn’t even dry from Governor Reeves’ signature before Sports Illustrated was reporting that the ACLU was preparing to sue and the NCAA threatened to take away championship competitions from our State,&#34; Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch said in a statement to Fox News. &#34;When the Fairness Act becomes law on July 1, I will be ready to defend this law and to defend the right of Mississippi’s girls to compete fairly.&#34;
CAITLYN JENNER OPPOSES BOYS WHO ARE TRANS PLAYING SPORTS ON GIRLS&#39; TEAMS IN SCHOOL
Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge also delivered a statement to Fox News. It reads: &#34;Here is my message to President Biden if he decides to sue the State of Arkansas to stop us from implementing the GIRLS Act which protects the opportunities of our young girls: Bring it on, Biden! I will wholeheartedly defend and win to ensure girls in Arkansas have a fair playing field to succeed.
On his first day in office, 
President Biden
 signed an 
executive order
 aimed at &#34;preventing and combating discrimination on the basis of gender identity or sexual orientation&#34; and called on schools across the country to allow transgender athletes to participate in the sport of their gender identity. 
Biden&#39;s 
Justice Department
 vowed to &#34;fully enforce&#34; protections for transgender people. &#34;The Department of Justice intends to fully enforce our civil rights statutes to protect transgender individuals,&#34; a Justice Department spokesperson told Fox News.
Biologically male athletes who identify as transgender will no longer be able to compete in female sports in Mississippi following Republican Gov. Tate Reeves&#39; March 
statewide ban
 in public schools.

      Gov. Tate Reeves speaks about selecting Burl Cain, the former warden of the Louisiana State Penitentiary, commonly known as Angola, as the new commissioner of the Mississippi Department of Correction, during Reeves&#39; daily coronavirus update for media in Jackson, Miss., Wednesday, May 20, 2020. (AP Photo/Rogelio V. Solis)
      
Mississippi Republicans have said the law, which will affect state schools and universities, is a necessary response to Biden’s 
executive order
 calling on schools across the country to allow students to participate in sports under their chosen gender identity.
The legislation, known as the Mississippi Fairness Act, is just one of 
two dozen other bills
 popping up around the country as some conservatives fear allowing biological male athletes to participate in female sports could strip biological females of opportunities to fairly compete.
Arkansas became the second state this year to ban transgender athletes from participating in sporting events Thursday.
Gov. Asa Hutchinson 
signed
 the Fairness in Women’s Sports Act in March after the measure passed through the state House with 
overwhelming support
.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The bill bans transgender women and girls from being allowed to participate in female sporting events.
&#34;This law simply says that female athletes should not have to compete in a sport against a student of the male sex when the sport is designed for women’s competition,&#34; Hutchinson said in a statement. &#34;This will help promote and maintain fairness in women’s sporting events.&#34;
Fox News&#39; Caitlin McFall and Morgan Phillips contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
