
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The ‘Life, Liberty and Levin’ host tells ‘Fox &amp; Friends’ how President Biden should tackle the Afghanistan withdrawal 
A billboard in Wilmington, 
North Carolina
, skewered 
President 
Biden
 for the botched withdrawal from Afghanistan that saw the Taliban take over the country and stranded thousands of Americans behind terrorist lines.
The electronic roadside display rotated between two pictures of the president.
BIDEN ADMIN DEPENDS ON TALIBAN TO GIVE AMERICANS ‘SAFE PASSAGE’ 6 WEEKS AFTER BIDEN SAID HE DOESN’T TRUST THEM
One 
picture 
depicts Biden eating an ice cream cone – in reference to the media&#39;s 
fawning
 
over the president and hard-hitting reports on his 
ice 
cream
 
flavor of choice – juxtaposed in front of a picture of a military helicopter departing the U.S. Embassy in Kabul.
The other photo is a shot of the president peeking through window curtains.
The president has faced robust criticism for his handling of the troop withdrawal, which has seen Afghanistan fall to the Taliban and American citizens stuck in the country scrambling to find their way home.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Thousands of American civilians remain in Afghanistan awaiting evacuation. 
Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., told Fox News in an interview on Monday that between &#34;400 and 500 people&#34; contacted his office in a period of between 12 and 18 hours &#34;pleading for assistance,&#34; after opening his phone lines up to all Americans stranded &#34;behind Taliban lines.&#34;
The White House did not respond to Fox News&#39; request for comment on the billboard. 
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
