
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The first woman to publicly accuse Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 of sexual harassment plans to sue the governor, along with his inner circle for alleged attempts to 
smear and discredit her
, according to a report.
Lindsey Boylan 
tweeted in December
 that Cuomo &#34;sexually harassed me for years,&#34; opening the floodgates of accusations that the governor behaved inappropriately with young female staffers.
On Wednesday, Boylan’s lawyer Jill Basinger 
told The New York Times
 that she will be litigating the claim.
&#34;Because Lindsey was first, the governor needed to send a message,&#34; Basinger reportedly said about the retaliations. &#34;He needed to send a message to every other survivor out there that this is what happens when you go against the machine of the governor’s office.&#34;
TIME&#39;S UP CO-FOUNDERS HELPED GOV. CUOMO IN DRAFTING LETTER ATTACKING ACCUSER LINDSEY BOYLAN: AG REPORT
In the wake of Boylan’s accusation, Cuomo spokesman Rich Azzopardi sent a Post reporter and several other journalists &#34;confidential files&#34; detailing workplace complaints against her, along with a formal statement 
denying the allegations
.

      New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and accuser Lindsey Boylan.
      
Tuesday’s 
scathing 165-page 
report 
issued by the attorney general’s office said that top aide 
Melissa DeRosa
, former Chief of Staff 
Jill Des Rosiers 
and outgoing counsel Judith Mogul dismissed and 
covered up the claims
 to protect the governor.
Boylan’s reported civil complaint comes as prosecutors in at least four New York counties have 
opened criminal investigations
 into accusations of forcible touching by the Democrat corroborated by the report.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Independent investigators found 11 women’s accusations of workplace sexual harassment, intimidation and unwanted touching to be credible, leading to a cascade of call’s for Cuomo’s resignation 
by former 
allies 
in his own party.
Cuomo has denied the accusations, but has not spoken to the press since the bombshell report was released, instead opting to hole up in the Governor’s Mansion to strategize a survival plan with his inner circle.
If the 63-year-old three-term governor resists calls to resign, he 
faces an impeachment inquiry
 by Albany lawmakers, the majority of whom have indicated they would 
vote to remove Cuomo
 from office.
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
