
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden
 is looking to 
Los Angeles
 Mayor Eric Garcetti to be the next U.S. ambassador to India.
The 
White House
 had been 
rumored
 to be planning the move since May, but officially announced it Friday, touting Garcetti’s eight years as LA mayor, 12 years on city council and 12 years as a 
Navy
 Reserve intelligence officer.
&#34;I am honored to accept his nomination to serve in this role,&#34; Garcetti tweeted in response.

      Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti arrives for an event to honor the 2020 World Series champion Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team at the White House, Friday, July 2, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)
      
In addition to his time in LA politics, Garcetti had also co-chaired Biden’s 2020 presidential campaign, even arguing in a 
Fox News op-ed
 last summer that then-candidate Biden was &#34;uniquely qualified&#34; to lead the U.S. out of the coronavirus pandemic.
LA MAYOR ERIC GARCETTI SAYS HE TURNED DOWN BIDEN ADMINISTRATION POSITION
The mayor had previously asked to be removed from Cabinet consideration at the height of the U.S. coronavirus crisis last year. India is currently facing a surge in COVID-19 deaths and new infections.
&#34;I have committed my life to service –– as an activist, as a teacher, as a naval officer, as a public servant, and if confirmed, next as an ambassador,&#34; he wrote in a follow-up tweet. &#34;Part of that commitment means that when your nation calls, you answer that call.&#34;
He added that he believed taking the job would &#34;help strengthen Los Angeles’ place on the world stage.&#34;
Garcetti’s accomplishments in LA include expanding the city’s light rail service and his handling of the coronavirus pandemic – but he’s been skewered by critics over his failure to solve its homelessness crisis.
Additionally, a former aide is being sued for allegedly sexually harassing one of his bodyguards while the mayor laughed it off, a claim he has denied. And one of his former deputy mayors is currently facing federal corruption charges.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Other ambassador nominees the White House announced Friday are Denise Campbell Bauer, a Democratic fundraiser for France and Monaco; Peter Haas, a longtime foreign service officer, for Bangladesh; and Bernadette Meehan, an Obama-era national security aide, for Chile.
The nominations will head to the Senate for confirmation.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
