
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News senior meteorologist Janice Dean, who lost both her in-laws to COVID-19 in New York care facilities, reacts to the governor’s announcement that he will resign in 14 days
It’s been 15 years since a 
New York
 governor 
left office
 without a scandal and just as long since a Republican has held the job. Republican Gov. George Pataki, who unseated Gov. Mario Cuomo in 1995 and went on to serve three terms, left office at the end of 2006.
Pataki was succeeded by Gov. Eliot Spitzer, a former attorney general, who resigned after just two years following a scandal involving a high-priced prostitution ring.
His replacement, former Lt. Gov. David Paterson, did not resign; however, he called off his campaign for a full term in office in 2010 amid allegations that his administration improperly intervened after a woman accused one of his close aides of domestic violence.

      
      
(Getty Images/AP/Getty Images)
NY GOV. CUOMO RESIGNS AMID SEXUAL HARASSMENT SCANDAL
And Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
, the son of Mario Cuomo and another former attorney general, announced his resignation Tuesday afternoon following a damning investigation into sexual harassment allegations leveled by 11 women.

      Former New York Gov. George Pataki, a Republican, in a 2015 file photo. (AP Photo/Jim Cole)
      
Current New York Attorney General Letitia James released the results of the probe last week. It alleged that the governor had groped women’s breasts or buttocks, given them unwanted kisses and made inappropriate comments on subordinates’ sex lives. State lawmakers had been discussing impeachment prior to the resignation announcement, and the governor may face the possibility of criminal charges as well.
CUOMO TOP AIDE RESIGNS AS EMBATTLED GOVERNOR FACES MULTIPLE SEXUAL MISCONDUCT ALLEGATIONS
&#34;Today closes a sad chapter for all of New York, but it’s an important step towards justice,&#34; James said in a statement after Cuomo&#39;s announcement.
He will be replaced by Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul, a former congresswoman. She will become the state’s first female governor and, notably, she is a moderate from western New York and far removed from New York City’s progressive wing.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
She called Cuomo’s alleged behavior &#34;repulsive and unlawful&#34; in a statement last week and has said she believes the outgoing governor’s accusers.
Cuomo, who has denied wrongdoing, said Tuesday his resignation would take effect in 14 days.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
