
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Kinney County, Texas Sheriff Brad Coe on the migrant surge and smugglers overwhelming the state&#39;s deputies.
Migrant encounters at the southern border remained high during April but showed signs of leveling off, according to numbers shared with Fox News by Border Patrol sources. 
There were 162,406 migrant encounters in April, and an estimated 37,111 &#34;got aways&#34; -- migrants who got past Border Patrol -- the source said, although there are more days in the month of April still to be calculated. That number, if it held steady, would be slightly lower than the 
172,000 encountered
 in March. The full number is expected to be announced during the first days of May.
FOX Business and Fox News Channel anchor 
Maria Bartiromo
 confirmed the numbers Thursday.
BIDEN&#39;S 100 DAYS IN OFFICE: HOW A BORDER CRISIS ESCALATED
The Washington Post
 first reported that arrests are projected to be roughly the same as March’s numbers. Included in that estimate is that U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is on pace to take in about 17,000 unaccompanied minors, lower than the more than 18,000 encountered in March.
A CBP official told The Post that it was in part due to increased border enforcement at Mexico&#39;s southern border. The Biden administration has been urging Mexico and Central America to increase their border security.
The Biden administration has been 
grappling with a crisis
 at the southern border, which has led to images of children packed in migrant shelters -- just as the administration opens more shelters and calls for federal volunteers.
BORDER PATROL CHIEF TELLS CBP HE WON&#39;T ENDORSE LANGUAGE POLICY THAT STOPS USE OF &#39;ILLEGAL ALIEN&#39;
While the administration has denied there is a crisis at the border, it has described the situation as a &#34;challenge&#34; and blamed both the Trump administration and &#34;root causes&#34; such as poverty and violence in Central America.
In that capacity, Vice President Kamala Harris is 
expected to visit Guatemala
 in June. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But critics have 
blamed the crisis
 on the rapid rolling back of Trump-era border protections -- such as limiting interior enforcement, halting the wall on the southern border and ending the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP), which kept migrants in Mexico as they awaited their hearings.
Biden has forged forward with his immigration agenda and on Wednesday renewed calls for illegal immigrants to be given pathways to citizenship as part of an immigration reform push in Congress.
FOX Business and Fox News Channel&#39;s Maria Bartiromo contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
