
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A 
Georgia
 
Democrat
 has denounced the idea of raising a statue of U.S. 
Supreme Court
 Justice Clarence Thomas statue, saying she would prefer to keep a Confederate monument. 
The proposal to display a statue of Thomas on the Georgia statehouse grounds has proved divisive among the legislature. Georgia Republicans have strongly endorsed the plan, but Georgia Democrats have taken a more hardline opposition. 
&#34;I’d rather them keep a Confederate monument than a statue of Clarence Thomas,&#34; Democratic state Rep. Donna McLeod told the 
Atlanta Journal-Constitution
. &#34;That’s how much I don’t like the idea.&#34;
WOMEN&#39;S MARCH RETURNS TO DC, OTHER MAJOR CITIES DEMANDING ‘ABORTION ACCESS FOR ALL’
McLeod’s comment recalls the fierce outcry from Democrats who demanded the immediate removal of Confederate monuments nationwide as protesters in the wake of George Floyd’s death engaged in the destruction and removal of statues depicting either slave owners or Confederate heroes. 
Democrats strongly opposed Thomas’ appointment to the Supreme Court when allegations of sexual harassment came to light. Anita Hill’s allegations led to 
rigorous Senate Judiciary Committee
 hearings led by then-Sen. Joe Biden.
SOTOMAYOR DENIES NYC TEACHERS&#39; PLEA TO BLOCK VACCINE MANDATE
Thomas proceeded to his post following a famous and 
impassioned speech
 in his defense, but Democrats have not forgotten the allegations and continue to raise them. 
However, some believe that Thomas deserves celebration following his career on the bench. Thomas is the second Black justice to ever serve on the Court and is currently the longest-serving justice. 
BIDEN SAYS ‘EVERYBODY IS FRUSTRATED’ AS AGENDA STALLS IN CONGRESS AMID DEM DIVISION
State Sen. Jason Anavitarte said it’s &#34;only fitting and proper&#34; to honor Thomas, a native of Pin Point in Chatham County, Georgia. 
&#34;Thomas deserves to be memorialized so Georgians for years to come can recognize this man and what he accomplished,&#34; said Republican Georgia state Sen. Brian Strickland. 
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Four Confederate monuments remain on city property in Atlanta, according to 
The Daily Caller
. An advisory committee in 2017 was formed to review Confederate street names and monuments in Georgia. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
