
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
In a sweeping move this week, 
Defense Secretary
 Lloyd Austin blocked hundreds of members from serving on various 
Pentagon
 advisory boards – including numerous nominees who were appointed by former 
President Trump
, according to a report.
The move came after the process for approving Trump’s nominees to the boards was halted last week, The Wall Street Journal reported.
&#34;Advisory boards have and will continue to provide an important role in shaping public policy within [the Department of Defense],&#34; Austin wrote 
to Pentagon leaders
. &#34;That said, our stewardship responsibilities require that we continually assess to ensure each advisory committee provides appropriate value today.&#34;
HOUSE, SENATE APPROVE CIVILIAN WAIVER FOR BIDEN&#39;S DEFENSE SECRETARY NOMINEE LLOYD AUSTIN

      Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin. (Associated Press)
      
Among those blocked from taking seats on Pentagon boards were Corey Lewandowski, who served as a Trump campaign manager in 2016, and David Bossie, a former Trump deputy campaign manager, the Journal reported.
Former Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich also was affected, Bloomberg News reported.
The action taken to eliminate Trump’s potential influence on the Pentagon boards, which takes effect Feb. 16, mirrored a smaller-scale move in January, when 
Biden
 administration officials 
quickly purged allies of President Trump from the Voice of America
 and the parent agency that oversees the news outlet.
BIDEN FIRES TRUMP-APPOINTED LABOR BOARD ATTORNEY IN BREAK WITH PRECEDENT
Another Trump ally quickly jettisoned was Peter Robb, general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, who was 
forced out just hours
 after Biden took office Jan. 20.

      Corey Lewandowski.
      
Having their nominations approved could have resulted in Lewandowski, Bossie, Gingrich and other Trump nominees gaining access to classified government information, the report noted.
The board members are usually unpaid but often provide access to key officials, 
Bloomberg reported
.

      David Bossie.
      
The advisory boards, including some that date to the 1950s, were intended to be bipartisan so the military could benefit from a range of policy ideas, 
according to the Journal
.
Those affected by Austin’s directive include boards on Arlington National Cemetery, military families with special needs, the defense industrial base and other topics, the report said.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Before President Trump left office, his acting defense secretary, Christopher Miller, took action similar to Austin’s, removing such Pentagon advisers as former secretaries of state Madeleine Albright and Henry Kissinger, former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Va., and former U.S. Rep. Jane Harman, D-Calif., the Journal reported.
Austin plans to announce new appointees for the boards in the coming weeks, according to the report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
