
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Trump Organization EVP Donald Trump Jr. calls out New York governor on &#39;Fox News Primetime
Speaker of the 
New York
 State Assembly Carl Heastie said on Monday that the impeachment investigation into 
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo
 will be &#34;very broad,&#34; hinting it may extend beyond sexual harassment allegations.
In addition to claims of inappropriate behavior brought forward by multiple women, the New York State Assembly&#39;s Judiciary Committee probe could look into the project to replace the Tappan Zee Bridge and how the governor’s office handled care of nursing home patients during the COVID-19 pandemic, as first reported by 
The New York Post
 over the weekend.
And while calls are mounting for Cuomo to resign, Heastie said many members of the New York State Assembly are willing to wait until the investigation has concluded before moving forward with impeachment.
&#34;There are some members who want, you know, an -- I&#39;d say an immediate consideration of impeachment, but … almost everybody believes in due process,&#34; Heastie said.
Heastie declined to say how long he expected the investigation to take but said that the selection of the outside firm that would assist the Judiciary Committee would be announced later this week.
KAMALA HARRIS TAKES HEAT FOR SILENCE ON CUOMO ACCUSATIONS
In a 
letter
 to Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Democrats asked for an investigation into the Tappan Zee Bridge Project after it was reported that there are structural concerns over bolts used. Cuomo renamed the bridge after his 
father, Mario Cuomo
, which was opened to the public in 2018.
&#34;The bridge has been and continues to be safe for the traveling public,&#34; project director Jamey Barbas responded. &#34;In addition to the extensive testing and analysis already performed, the entire structure is routinely inspected and monitored, and during our most recent biennial inspection, we found no additional bolt failures of concern. These inspection results match the findings of our testing program which concluded that future bolt failures, if any, will be extremely rare and inconsequential.&#34;
Cuomo also has come under fire for issuing a directive that required nursing homes to accept COVID-positive patients released from hospitals. The administration has been accused of 
underreporting nursing home deaths
 after it recently came out with statistics that are much higher than what it had previously reported.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Seven women have publicly made allegations of inappropriate conduct against Cuomo. He has refused to resign and has denied many of the claims brought forward.
The three-term Democrat explained that his &#34;playful&#34; behavior may have been misinterpreted, or it may have been &#34;insensitive&#34; or &#34;too playful.&#34;
New York Attorney General Letitia James is also probing the sexual harassment claims against Cuomo.
Fox News’ Tara Prindville contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
