
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Retired ICE agent Victor Avila, whose partner was murdered by a drug cartel in Mexico, provides insight on President Biden’s border agenda.
The Supreme Court
 on Wednesday agreed to a request by the 
Biden
 administration to remove two immigration-related cases from its upcoming calendar because they were no longer necessary due to policy changes by the new administration.
In a brief order, the high court agreed to the request to remove the cases from its upcoming oral argument calendar.
BIDEN SIGNS THREE IMMIGRATION ORDERS IN LATEST MOVE TO REVERSE KEY TRUMP POLICIES 
&#34;The motions to hold further briefing in abeyance and to remove the cases from the February 2021 argument calendar are granted,&#34; the order said.
The first case, Biden v. Sierra Club, concerns the 
construction of the wall at the southern border
 and whether the Trump administration had the authority to transfer $2.5 billion in military funds to fund the project on the basis of a &#34;national emergency&#34; declaration.
Approximately 450 miles of wall was constructed under President Donald Trump, with about another 350 additional miles funded.
But Biden, who promised to stop the wall if elected, last week 
halted construction of the wall
 so there could be assessments of the legality of the funding, contracting methods as well as the consequences of stopping the projects.
The second case taken off the calendar by the court -- Pekoske (Wolf) v. Innovation Law Lab -- involved the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP). The policy, known as the Remain-in-Mexico policy, sends migrants back to Mexico while they await their immigration hearings rather than them being released into the U.S.
CBP STOPS BORDER WALL CONSTRUCTION AFTER BIDEN EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Critics called the policy cruel and inhumane, while the 
Trump
 administration argued that it was vital in ending &#34;catch and release&#34; and removing the pull factors that bring migrants to the U.S.  More than 60,000 migrants had been returned under the policy.
The administration had appealed lower court rulings invalidating the policy. But Biden had promised to end MPP and on Tuesday signed an order ordering a review of the program and for DHS to determine whether the policy should be modified or terminated.
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan 
had indicated
 the administration still wishes to ultimately end the program but has warned that it will &#34;take time.&#34;
&#34;MPP has been a disaster from the start and has led to a humanitarian crisis in northern Mexico. But putting the new policy into practice will take time,&#34; he said in December. &#34;The current administration dismantled much of the necessary capacity to ensure the safe and orderly processing of migrants. We need time to increase processing capacity and to do so consistent with public health requirements.&#34;
The withdrawal of the cases is the latest move by the Biden administration to move quickly away from Trump-era policies on immigration. On Tuesday, Biden 
signed orders
 that will set up a task force to reunify families separated under his predecessor and review other Trump policies.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;I’m not making new law, I&#39;m eliminating bad policy,&#34; Biden said from the Oval Office. &#34;What I&#39;m doing is taking on the issues that, 99% of them, that the last president of the United States issued executive orders I thought were very counterproductive to our security, counterproductive to who we are as a country, particularly in the area of immigration.&#34;
He has also ended Trump-era travel bans and sought to strengthen the 2012 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
 program that Trump sought to end -- but was rebuffed by the Supreme Court.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
