
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Democrats
 in the House and Senate reintroduced legislation this week to end qualified immunity for 
law enforcement
 officers to pave the way for alleged victims of police brutality to file lawsuits. 
Rep. 
Ayanna Pressley
, D-Mass., along with fellow Massachusetts Democratic Sens. Ed Markey and 
Elizabeth Warren
, are among the co-sponsors of the &#34;
Ending Qualified Immunity Act
&#34; that aims to abolish the legal protections for law enforcement officers from civil lawsuits.
&#34;There will not be true racial justice until we end qualified immunity,&#34; Markey said in a statement. 
Pressley and former Rep. Justin Amash, a Libertarian from Michigan, first introduced the legislation last year after the death of 
George Floyd
 during an arrest by Minneapolis police that sparked civil unrest throughout the summer. 
POLICING THE UNIONS: CALLS FOR &#39;GUARDRAILS&#39; ON POLICE UNION COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GROW AMID REFORM DEMANDS
The 
legislation states
 that the qualified immunity doctrine, which can protect cops from being held personally liable, does not provide police officers that brutalize or otherwise violate civil rights with defense or immunity from liability for their actions.
If qualified immunity is eliminated, many more lawsuits against police could proceed to a trial or settlement, and police departments could have more trouble finding insurance carriers to pay out the uptick in settlements to victims of police brutality.
Other co-sponsors include Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and progressive Reps. Rashida Tlaib, D-Mich., and Cori Bush, D-Mo.
POLICING THE UNIONS: AFTER YEARS OF UNION OBJECTIONS, POLICE REFORM LEGISLATION ADVANCES
Pressley, a member of the so-called progressive Squad, offered the legislation as the House is set to consider police reform legislation this month. The Democrats&#39; &#34;George Floyd Justice in Policing Act&#34; passed the House last year but died in the GOP-led Senate. 
&#34;We must fully end the doctrine of qualified immunity which for too long has shielded law enforcement from accountability and denied recourse for the countless families robbed of their loved ones,&#34; Pressley said in a statement.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;There can be no justice without healing and accountability, and there can be no true accountability with qualified immunity,&#34; she said. &#34;We must act with urgency. We must be bold and unapologetic in our pursuit of policy that increases police accountability and addresses the crisis of police brutality plaguing Black and brown communities.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
