
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News contributor reacts to expected CDC guidance on mask wearing on &#39;FOX News Primetime&#39;
Dr. Anthony Fauci
, the director of the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), has worn a mask outside two days in a row despite being vaccinated against 
COVID-19
 and telling Americans they can lose their masks after getting their shots.
Fauci recently told Americans they could ditch facial coverings after getting vaccinated against COVID-19 and has been 
vaccinated
 since January.
However, the NIAID director has been caught rocking a face mask outside the past two days, even though he told vaccinated people himself that they 
no 
longer
 
need to wear masks outside.
A picture snapped of Fauci on Sunday shows him posing outside, masked up, with a couple of graduates from George Washington University.
RAND PAUL MOCKS FAUCI OVER ADVOCACY OF MASK USE AFTER VACCINATION
On Monday, another photo of Fauci hit the internet – this time of him meeting with Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin, of Illinois, and National Institute of Health (NIH) Director Francis Collins outside.
Again, Fauci wore his mask.
During a Tuesday 
interview
 on &#34;Good Morning America,&#34; Fauci said he continued to wear a mask indoors up until recently because he didn’t want to &#34;look like [he] was giving mixed signals.&#34;
&#34;But being a fully vaccinated person, the chances of my getting infected in an indoor setting is extremely low and that’s the reason why in indoor settings now I feel comfortable about not wearing a mask because I’m fully vaccinated,&#34; Fauci said.
Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., blasted Fauci for continuing to wear masks after being fully vaccinated during a March Senate hearing.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Paul, an eye doctor by training, has been a prominent critic of Fauci’s guidance that Americans should wear masks even after vaccination while scientists work to understand the effects that emergent COVID-19 variants have on immunity.
&#34;Dr. Fauci, great news! T cell immunity after natural infection shown to include variants,&#34; Paul 
wrote on Twitter
. &#34;Do we still need to wear multiple masks after we’ve recovered or been vaccinated?&#34;
NIAID did not immediately respond to Fox News&#39; request for comment.
Fox News’ Thomas Barrabi contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
