
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A 
Delaware
 Democrat state lawmaker who was caught using racist and sexist language in an email to describe sex workers is resisting calls for his resignation – and has instead decided to not seek reelection after his current term expires. 
Rep. Gerald Brady of Wilmington has been under fire after the comments surfaced in a June 27 email he inadvertently sent to an advocate for decriminalizing prostitution. Thinking he was forwarding an email from an advocate to another person from whom he was seeking input, Brady instead mistakenly hit &#34;reply&#34; and sent his comments to the advocate, the 
Associated Press
 says. 
&#34;Is the dude basically saying, if we provide free (sex acts) for Uncle Pervie there will be few rapes and few (a slur for Chinese women) will be shipped in CONEX containers to the Port of Wilmington??&#34; Brady wrote from his official government email address, according to the news agency. 

      Rep. Gerald Brady, who is facing calls for his resignation, says he won&#39;t seek reelection.
      
(Delaware House Democrats)
MEGHAN MCCAIN BASHES ‘PATHETIC BUREAUCRATS’ IN CONGRESS, PREDICTS PELOSI WILL LOSE SPEAKERSHIP IN MIDTERMS
 
On Monday, Brady released a statement saying he wouldn’t relinquish his position, but he wouldn’t seek reelection either. 
&#34;I cannot in good conscience ask the voters to put their faith in me again after I betrayed theirs,&#34; said Brady, who is executive director of the Delaware AFL-CIO and was elected to the Delaware House in 2006. 
Democrat House leaders directed Brady last week to complete sensitivity training and reach out to members of the Asian American community in an effort to regain their trust. But they indicated in their own statement Monday that they are not interested in initiating disciplinary proceedings that could lead to Brady’s suspension or expulsion from the House. 
&#34;We want to be clear about something we have heard from residents this past week: As a duly elected official, only Rep. Brady can make a decision about his political future. House leadership cannot unilaterally take action,&#34; House Speaker Pete Schwartzkopf, Majority Leader Valerie Longhurst and Majority Whip Larry Mitchell said in a joint statement. 
TEXAS DEMOCRAT FEARS ‘RURAL COP’ RETALIATION FOR FLEEING STATE
 
However, that isn’t true, according to the Associated Press. 
Schwartzkopf, Longhurst and Mitchell are members of the House Ethics Committee, which is chaired by Longhurst and includes Republican Minority Leader Danny Short and Minority Whip Tim Dukes. House rules authorize the committee to investigate complaints that a lawmaker has violated the rules of legislative conduct. 
Among the rules of legislative conduct: &#34;A member shall not engage in conduct which the House determines (i) brings the House into disrepute or (ii) reflects adversely on the member’s fitness to hold legislative office.&#34; 
Ethics Committee rules state that any House member, including any member of the committee, can file a complaint. If a majority of the committee decides that the complaint has been proven, the committee can then, again by majority vote, recommend that the House take &#34;appropriate action,&#34; up to and including expulsion of the offending lawmaker. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
Despite describing Brady’s remarks as &#34;reprehensible, racist, sexist and indefensible,&#34; Democratic leaders indicated that, instead of an Ethics Committee investigation, they would make sensitivity training available to all members of the House. 
&#34;While we do not believe our colleagues harbor such views, it would be beneficial for them to learn of any microaggressions or other attitudes or actions that negatively impact the Asian American community, and how we all can take steps to improve our relationships with the community,&#34; they said. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
