
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden
 hit the road on Wednesday to make the case for the 
infrastructure deal
 reached by a bipartisan group of senators and the White House.
And while the president’s trip is mostly about policy, it’s hard to overlook the politics, as Biden’s travel plans will once again bring him to a battleground congressional district.
IS BIDEN THINKING OF 2022 AND 2024 AS HE TRAVELS TO KEY BATTLEGROUND STATES?
The president held his event promoting his so-called &#34;Build Back Better&#34; agenda at McHenry County College in Crystal Lake, 
Illinois
, an exurb northwest of Chicago. The school is located in the district of Democratic Rep. Lauren Underwood, who won reelection last November to a second term by less than two points. 

      President of McHenry County College Clint Gabbard, listens as President Joe Biden speaks as he tours a manufacturing lab at McHenry County College during an event highlighting infrastructure spending, Wednesday, July 7, 2021, in Crystal Lake, Ill. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
While her district may become more friendly due to the upcoming redistricting process, which in blue state Illinois is controlled by the Democrats, the National Republican Congressional Committee considers her &#34;vulnerable&#34; as she runs for reelection next year.
Veteran political columnist and analyst 
Lynn Sweet of the Chicago Sun Times
 this week described the area as &#34;one of the redder parts of one of the bluest states in the nation.&#34;
WHERE BIDEN&#39;S POLL NUMBERS STAND FIVE MONTHS INTO HIS PRESIDENCY
The Democrats currently hold their narrowest 
House
 majority since World War II, and the GOP needs a net gain of just five seats to win back the chamber in the 2022 
midterm elections
, which will very much be a referendum on Biden’s first two years as president.
Biden’s trip comes a week after he held an event in La Crosse, 
Wisconsin
, in the district of longtime Democratic Rep. Ron Kind, who also narrowly won reelection last year and faces a challenging reelection in 2022 if he seeks another term in the House.
Asked about the politics of the president’s stop in Illinois, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Tuesday that &#34;I would see this as less of a political trip.&#34; And she once again noted that Biden &#34;ran as someone who would represent not just Democrats, not just Republicans, not just independents, but all people.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
If part of the mission of the trip is to showcase Biden&#39;s bipartisan efforts, McHenry County, which then-President Trump 
narrowly won last November
, seems to fit the bill.
So does Central Lake, 
Michigan
, where the president held a Fourth of July holiday weekend event. The area’s in a safe Republican district represented by GOP Rep. Jack Bergman.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
