
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Every two years, Republicans from across the state of Michigan head to scenic Mackinac Island to chart the party&#39;s path forward. Robert Sherman reports from Mackinac at this year&#39;s conference.
MACKINAC ISLAND, MI – 
Conservatives from across the state of Michigan flocked to Mackinac Island this weekend for the state’s biennial Republican Leadership Conference.
Aside from taking in the stunning views of Lake Michigan and Lake Huron or enjoying a one-of-a-kind trip back in time at the island’s &#34;Grand Hotel,&#34; attendees also heard from big-name Republicans from across the country — including Texas Senator Ted Cruz, South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem and South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham.
While the meeting is meant to serve as an opportunity for Michigan Republicans to exchange ideas and chart the party’s path forward, the event’s secret-ballot straw poll gives an unofficial indication as to who Michiganders would like to see atop the Republican ticket in 2024.
To nobody’s surprise, former President Donald J. Trump took the top spot with 47.5%. That’s 
according to The Detroit News
 which sponsored the straw poll.
While heads and shoulders above any other potential candidate, the mark is lower than the former President’s vote-share at CPAC in Dallas in July 
where he took home 70% of the vote.
 By comparison, the 45th President 
secured 55% of the vote at February’s CPAC in Orlando.
About 740 people, all Republicans, were surveyed for this weekend’s poll, according to 
The Detroit News.
The second-highest vote-getter was 
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis
, with about 25% of the vote — consistent with his straw poll performances at both CPACs this year. Both CPACs, however, included polls with a potential list of candidates that did not include former President Trump’s name. DeSantis was the clear winner at both conferences in those polls.
Rounding out the top five in Mackinac: South Dakota Gov. 
Kristi Noem
 finished third with 8% of the vote, and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz had 6% as did former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley.
In terms of the influence former President Trump holds over Michigan Republicans, 44% said a Trump endorsement would not impact whether they support a candidate or not.
In terms of the issues Republican voters at the conference found to be most important, The Detroit News reports that 28% chose &#34;election integrity,&#34; which ended up topping the list. Taxes and spending followed close behind at 25%, abortion received 11% of the vote and inflation garnered 10%.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In terms of combatting COVID-19, 56% of respondents said government does not have a role in mitigating the pandemic.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
