
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News congressional correspondent Chad Pergram discusses deadly attacks in Kabul on ‘Cavuto: Coast to Coast.’
Kamala Harris
 returned to the U.S. on Thursday, landing in 
Hawaii
 after her trip to Singapore and Vietnam.
But the vice president ignored 
reporters
’ questions – whether about 
Afghanistan
 or other topics – as she got off Air Force Two for a stop at Joint Base 
Pearl Harbor
-Hickam.
She also blocked reporters from attending her planned address to U.S. 
troops
 stationed at the base, according to reports.  
The Pearl Harbor stop had been scheduled prior to Thursday&#39;s 
terrorist
 attack at the Kabul airport that killed at least 13 U.S. service members and dozens of Afghans. An 
Islamic State
 group affiliate claimed responsibility for the attack.
After the attack, reporters traveling with Harris learned her Hawaii visit with the troops would be closed to the press.
&#34;The VP’s staff informed the pool during the flight that her event with troops at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam would now be closed press,&#34; the White House press pool said, according to the Washington Examiner. &#34;No explanation given by the VP’s team for why it has been changed to closed press when asked by a member of the pool.&#34;
Harris also canceled a campaign rally scheduled for Friday in California with Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom, who faces a recall election next month, likely over the optics of attending a political event after a deadly terrorist attack. 
AFGHANISTAN EXPLOSIONS: 13 US SERVICE MEMBERS KILLED IN KABUL AIRPORT BLAST, MORE WOUNDED, OFFICIALS SAY
Instead, she and second gentleman Douglas Emhoff, who greeted Harris in Hawaii, flew directly back to Washington on Thursday – again without taking questions from reporters as she boarded Air Force Two. 
Harris had flown to Pearl Harbor following a sweep through Southeast Asia this week. 

      U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris boards Air Force Two to return to Washington from Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii, Thursday, Aug. 26, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
Harris issued a statement about the events in Afghanistan.
&#34;Today in Kabul, a terror attack killed 13 American service members. These courageous service members died while saving countless lives. They are heroes,&#34; Harris wrote in a Twitter post Thursday evening. &#34;Doug and I grieve for the Americans we lost, we pray for the Americans injured in the attack, and our hearts go out to their loved ones. We also grieve for the Afghan civilians killed and injured.

      U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris is received by Adm. Samuel Paparo, left, Commander of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, as she arrives at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii, before continuing to Washington, Thursday, Aug. 26, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
&#34;Our country is grateful to our women and men in uniform, and in particular, those working today to get Americans and our Afghan partners out of harm’s way. We will complete that mission. Today, we honor those who gave their lives in service to their nation. We will never forget.&#34;

      Afghans lie on beds at a hospital after they were wounded in the deadly attacks outside the airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, Thursday, Aug. 26, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Harris’ office released a statement summarizing her stop at Pearl Harbor, according to the 
Examiner
. The vice president &#34;addressed 25 members of the military representing the six active-duty service branches and National Guard, thanking them for their service,&#34; the statement said. &#34;She and the Second Gentleman then talked individually with each service member.&#34; 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
