
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News analyst Kayleigh McEnany reacts to Biden’s comments about Republican governors. 
Election law attorney Marc Elias is cheering 
Democrats
&#39; voting and campaign finance reform legislation while seeking to overturn the certification of an 
Iowa
 election.
&#34;No matter how late it gets tonight, this is urgent!&#34; Elias tweeted Wednesday of the 
For the People Act of 2021
, known as H.R. 1, which passed in the House by a vote of 220 to 210.
At the same time, Elias is helping to challenge Iowa Republican Rep. Mariannette Miller-Meeks&#39; 2020 
election
 win. In January, Meeks was 
finally sworn in
 after the election was certified by six votes over former Democratic Iowa state Sen. Rita Hart.
A 
House committee
 charged with investigating the matter officially met for the first time on Feb. 10 to discuss the matter. 

      
      
(Mariannette Miller-Meeks (Miller-Meeks campaign))
&#34;Six votes separate the two candidates. We have identified 22 ballots for Hart that were wrongfully rejected. Now it looks like Miller-Meeks is scrambling,&#34; Elias tweeted on Feb. 8.
HOUSE CANCELS THURSDAY VOTES AMID SECURITY THREATS AT CAPITOL
A number of the 22 rejected ballots Elias identified were invalid due to registration and absentee voting issues, 
according to
 the Quad-City Times.
H.R. 1 would enact automatic voter registration, expand early voting access and absentee voting, restore voting rights to felons after they have completed their sentences, prohibit voter roll purges and partisan gerrymandering, impose new campaign finance rules, require presidential nominees to release 10 years of tax returns and take aim at big-dollar donors and dark money.
IOWA CONGRESSIONAL CONTEST HEATS UP AS HOUSE TAKES FIRST STEP TO CONSIDER ELECTION CHALLENGE
Elias did not immediately respond to an inquiry from Fox News asking if H.R. 1 would potentially lead to more legal election challenges like the one he is leading for Hart.

      Former Iowa State Sen. Rita Hart speaks with a reporter at her farm in Wheatland, Iowa, on Tuesday, Aug. 13, 2019. (Caroline Brehman/CQ Roll Call) 
      
Another major pillar of the legislation would establish a 
new public financing system
 for congressional and presidential elections to incentivize small-dollar donations. The legislation would establish a 6:1 match for each grassroots contribution to a candidate up to $200.
No Republicans joined with Democrats in approving the sweeping voter rights reform that now heads to the Senate, and 20 Republican state attorneys general are 
calling
 the bill &#34;unconstitutional.&#34;
BIDEN CELEBRATES HOUSE PASSAGE OF H.R. 1, DEMS&#39; CAMPAIGN BILL, VOWS WORK TO &#39;REFINE AND ADVANCE&#39; LEGISLATION
President Biden applauded House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats for passing H.R. 1 &#34;in the wake of an unprecedented assault on our democracy; a coordinated attempt to ignore, undermine, and undo the will of the American people never before seen in our history; and a new wave of aggressive attacks on voting rights taking place in states across the country.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;The right to vote is sacred and fundamental — it is the right from which all of our other rights as Americans spring. This landmark legislation is urgently needed to protect that right, to safeguard the integrity of our elections, and to repair and strengthen our democracy,&#34; he said, adding that he looks forward to &#34;signing it into law after it has passed through the legislative process.&#34;
Fox News&#39; Marisa Schultz contributed to this report.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
