
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Residents of one of the most controversial converted 
hotel shelters
 on 
Manhattan’s
 Upper West Side are organizing a forum to quiz the city’s leading 
mayoral candidates
 over the vexing 
homelessness crisis
 next week.
The panel is being organized by a local pro-shelter group in the neighborhood and by &#34;Da Homeless Hero,&#34; a resident living in the controversial Lucerne Hotel, which 
Mayor Bill de Blasio
 
ordered closed
 after an avalanche of complaints from nearby residents about squalid conditions and quality of life issues.
FORMER &#39;REAL HOUSEWIVES&#39; STAR BARBARA KAVOVIT ANNOUNCES RUN FOR NYC MAYOR
&#34;In this first-of-its kind event, all questions to candidates will be posed by directly impacted individuals experiencing homelessness,&#34; the group, Upper West Side Open Hearts, wrote on its Twitter page. &#34;Join us to elevate the voices of directly impacted 
New Yorkers
 holding mayoral candidates accountable, and ensuring a better approach to homelessness in the next administration.&#34;
The forum
 is set for Feb. 4 and was first reported by 
local news website Patch
.
Word of the forum comes as City Hall remains locked in a 
months-long, multi-party court fight
 over a Department of Homeless Services plan to shut down its operation inside of the Lucerne — which once housed as many as 280 homeless men — and relocate residents to a new facility built in a former Radisson hotel downtown, near Wall Street.
The state’s 
Appellate Division
 ordered officials in January to give the roughly 200 residents of the Lucerne the choice to stay 
at the Upper West Side facility
 or move to the 
Financial District
.
Initially, 
de Blasio opposed calls
 for a mass evacuation of the Big Apple’s barracks-style homeless shelters when the 
coronavirus pandemic
 broke out last spring.
But facing a COVID-19 outbreak and growing recognition that social distancing was impossible in those facilities, 
officials struck a $299 million deal
 with the Hotel Association of New York City to house the city’s homeless in empty hotel rooms as one way to help protect down-on-their-luck Gothamites from the disease.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
The Federal Emergency Management Agency is expected to eventually pick up 75 percent of the quarter-billion dollar price tag.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
