
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News national correspondent Bill Melugin has the latest from the southern border on &#39;Special Report&#39;
Seizures of the deadly drug 
fentanyl
 has soared in recent months, with more seizures so far in fiscal year 2021 already exceeding the entirety of FY 2020, according to Customs and Border Protection, the latest indication of the continued crisis at the southern border.
CBP announced last week that seizures of fentanyl in April were up by 34 percent over March. March’s seizures in turn had been down by 28 percent since February.
BORDER PATROL CANINE SNIFFS OUT $60G WORTH OF FENTANYL HIDDEN INSIDE BURRITOS
The numbers mean that there were 6,494 lbs of fentanyl were seized in fiscal year 2021 -- which began in October -- compared to the entirety of FY2020, where there were just 4, 776 lbs seized.
Fentanyl, an opioid for pain treatment, is between 50 and 100 times more potent than morphine. According to the 
CDC
, more than 36,000 people died from overdoses involving synthetic opioids like fentanyl in 2019.
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott has been 
sounding the alarm about
 the increase in fentanyl and said that the state’s Department of Public Safety has seen an 800 percent increase over April of fentanyl seizures.
&#34;We have obtained enough fentanyl coming across the border to kill every single person in the state of New York,&#34; he said Friday.
BORDER CRISIS: 233% INCREASE IN FENTANYL SEIZURES AT SOUTHERN BORDER
The news comes as the Biden administration tackles a surge in migration and other illegal contraband at the border. 
Critics have blamed
 the surge on rollback of Trump-era border policies and enforcement, while the Biden administration has blamed the Trump administration and &#34;root causes&#34; in Central America.
The announcement by CBP came as it also 
announced that it encountered 178,622
 migrants trying to enter the U.S. in April, a three percent increase over the approximately 172,000 encountered in March, which was the highest number in 20 years. 
&#34;CBP continues to see a large influx of illegal migration along the Southwest Border,&#34; acting CBP Commissioner Troy Miller said in a statement.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The agency said that the number of unaccompanied children from Northern Triangle countries dropped by 12 percent, with 13,962 in April compared with 15,918 in March.
As part of its pushback against illegal cartel activity, the administration recently announced 
Operation Sentinel
, to target transnational criminal organizations and their finances involved with smuggling migrants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
