
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
National security correspondent Jennifer Griffin has the latest on the Afghan refugee resettlement on &#39;Special Report.&#39; 
The 
State Department
&#39;s inspector general is launching a series of investigations into the Biden administration&#39;s last diplomatic moves in 
Afghanistan
.
The reviews will focus on the State Department&#39;s Special Immigrant Visa program, Afghans processed for refugee admission into the U.S., resettlement of refugees and visa recipients, and the emergency evacuation of the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, according to an Oct. 15 memo to Secretary of State Blinken first 
reported by Politico
 and confirmed by Fox News.
Diana Shaw, the acting inspector general at State, told Congress that her office was launching &#34;several oversight projects&#34; related to the end of the U.S. military and diplomatic missions in Afghanistan. 

      U.S soldiers standing guard along a perimeter at the international airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, on Aug. 16.
      
(AP Photo/Shekib Rahmani, File)
RETIRED MILITARY LEADERS DEMAND MASS RESIGNATION OF BIDEN TEAM: MILLEY, AUSTIN, BLINKEN, SULLIVAN
&#34;Given the elevated interest in this work by Congress and the unique circumstances requiring coordination across the Inspector General community, I wanted to notify our committees of jurisdiction of this important work,&#34; Shaw wrote in a letter to the foreign affairs and intelligence committees of both the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate.
Other inspectors general offices, including those at the Department of Defense and the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, are also likely to launch similar probes of the withdrawal, Politico reported. 

      Taliban fighters in Kabul on Aug. 30.
      
(AP Photo/Khwaja Tawfiq Sediqi, File)
Critics have faulted 
President Biden
 for holding to an arbitrary Aug. 31 deadline for the removal of U.S. troops, even though it seemed unlikely the military would be able to withdraw all troops and civilians by that time. 
Biden infamously assured Americans that the 
Taliban
 would not storm the 
U.S. Embassy in Kabul
 the same way the North Vietnamese stormed the U.S. Embassy in Saigon in 1975, but events disproved this confident prediction, as footage of Kabul 
eerily echoed
 Saigon.

      Taliban soldiers standing guard in Afghanistan&#39;s Panjshir province Sept. 8.
      
(AP Photo/Mohammad Asif Khan, File)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Retired Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg, a Fox News contributor and former acting national security advisor to President Trump, 
told Fox News
 at the time that Biden owns the 
Afghanistan
 withdrawal disaster, and that the Afghan power vacuum Biden left behind is &#34;much worse&#34; than the power vacuum in Iraq that spawned the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS). 
An untold number of Americans and U.S. allies remain trapped in the country, which the withdrawal left in the hands of the Taliban. Retired military leaders have called for the 
mass resignation
 of Biden&#39;s diplomatic and military leaders in the wake of the fiasco.
Tyler O&#39;Neil is an editor at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at 
@Tyler2ONeil
. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email Tyler at tyler.oneil@fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
