
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A 
Michigan
 state lawmaker who was arrested earlier this month following a suspected DUI crash refused to have his booking photo taken, arguing that officers weren’t following state 
coronavirus
 guidelines, video shows, according to a report.
State Rep. Jewell Jones, a Democrat who was taken into custody April 6 after crashing his SUV, warned authorities that &#34;Big Gretch&#34; – aka Gov. 
Gretchen Whitmer
 – would be coming after them if they didn’t allow him to wear a face mask for the photo, FOX 2 of Detroit reported.
&#34;You know what? Big Gretch is the homie,&#34; Jones said, according to a video obtained by FOX 2. &#34;When she finds out about this, she might be a little upset about the treatment. She’s very serious about the pandemic so I’m just wondering if I can wear the mask.&#34;
MICHIGAN DEMOCRAT SEEN RESISTING DUI ARREST, THREATENS TO CALL GOV. WHITMER IN BODYCAM FOOTAGE
&#34;Big Gretch is the homie. When she finds out about this, she might be a little upset about the treatment.&#34;

      Michigan state Rep. Jewell Jones and Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer.
      
During the exchange, a sheriff’s officer informs Jones that the governor already &#34;knows about this,&#34; referring to Jones’ arrest, and advises Jones to start complying with instructions.
Footage recorded later shows Jones sitting on the floor of his cell, again refusing to have his photo and fingerprints taken, FOX 2 reported.
Jones has been 
charged with
 resisting and obstructing, operating a vehicle with a high blood alcohol content, operating while intoxicated, reckless driving, and possession of a weapon while under the influence of alcohol, according to the station.
Authorities have said his blood alcohol level was twice the legal limit following the crash.
MICHIGAN STATE DEM PEPPER-SPRAYED, CHARGED WITH DUI, RESISTING ARREST, WEAPONS POSSESSION: REPORT
When responding officers arrived at the crash scene, Jones and a female passenger were both found with their pants partially down, the Michigan Information &amp; Research Service said in a report, according to FOX 2.
Jones also invoked Whitmer’s name at the time of his arrest, 
the station reported
.
&#34;I run y’alls’ budget,&#34; Jones told state troopers, according to FOX 2. &#34;When I call Gretchen, I’ll need y’all IDs and badge numbers, everything.&#34;
&#34;I run y’alls’ budget. When I call Gretchen, I’ll need y’all IDs and badge numbers, everything.&#34;
The female passenger was transported to a hospital after being found unable to stand and after having vomited, the report said. Her current condition was unclear.
Authorities say Jones clashed with state troopers and had to be subdued with a stun gun and pepper spray, the report said. His lawyer is now arguing that excessive force was used on the lawmaker.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Clearly he’s overcharged. Clearly, police abused their discretion here and they used excessive force on Mr. Jones,&#34; attorney Ali Hammoud told FOX 2, asserting that race was a factor in the lawmaker’s treatment by the officers.
Jones, a member of the Michigan National Guard, is in his third term representing the 11th District, which includes Garden City, Inkster and parts of three other communities.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
