
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Arizona attorney general Mark Brnovich tells ‘The Faulkner Focus’ he ‘will not sit back and allow the Biden administration to abuse its authority or attempt to commandeer the state’s sovereignty.’
FIRST ON FOX:
 
Arizona&#39;s
 attorney general on Monday announced that his office is seeking a preliminary injunction against the 
Biden
 administration’s efforts to end border wall construction and the 
Trump-era 
Remain-in-Mexico policy – claiming the moves violate environmental law.
Attorney General Mark Brnovich’s office first 
sued
 the 
Department of Homeland Security
 in April, alleging the administration has not complied with its obligations under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) when it ended border wall construction and the Remain-in-Mexico policy – which kept migrants in 
Mexico
 until their hearings were processed.
TEXAS GOV. ABBOTT SLAMS FEDS FOR ‘COMPLETE ABANDONMENT’ OF BORDER LAWS AMID ‘UNPRECEDENTED’ MIGRANT SURGE
Biden signed an order ending border wall construction on his first day in office, having campaigned on the issue. His administration also ended the Remain-in-Mexico policy, officially called the 
Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP),
 amid claims that it was cruel and forced migrants into dangerous situations. Republicans have blamed the moves for fueling the crisis at the southern border.
NEPA generally requires federal agencies to weigh the potential environmental consequences of policies prior to their implementation. The suit requested the U.S. District Court in Arizona void the border wall pause and reinstate Remain-in-Mexico until the government carries out a review of the environmental damage.
GAO SAYS BIDEN HALT OF BORDER WALL CONSTRUCTION DOES NOT VIOLATE LAW
The AG’s office cites estimates that each migrant crossing the border leaves up to 8 pounds of trash and that the state’s Department of Environmental Quality found that includes human waste, medical products, vehicles and plastic containers.
The new effort Monday includes a request for a preliminary injunction as well as an amended complaint. The injunction would require the administration to analyze the environmental impacts, rescind the cancellation of wall contracts and reinstate Remain-in-Mexico. 
The new complaint alleges the sudden termination of the policies were arbitrary and capricious and that the administration failed to prepared an environmental impact statement despite the potential impacts of the policies it says encourages immigration across the border.
BIDEN&#39;S IMMIGRATION POLICIES HURT ENVIRONMENT? ARIZONA GREEN GROUPS REACT TO STATE AG&#39;S LAWSUIT
&#34;There is no doubt that the Biden Administration’s immigration policies are causing a humanitarian, public safety, and environmental crisis at our border,&#34; Brnovich said in a statement. &#34;I will do everything I can to stop their destructive actions and protect Arizona.&#34;
The suit alleges the combined policies led to an unprecedented number of migrants crossing the border – with official statistics showing there were more than 180,000 migrant encounters in May alone.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The lawsuit is one of a number of efforts by Republican states to push back against the Biden administration’s immigration policies. 
Texas
 successfully 
sued
 the administration to end a planned 100-day deportation moratorium, while Arizona and Montana 
have sought to end
 restrictive Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) regulations.
Texas 
Gov. Greg Abbott
, meanwhile, recently announced that his state will pursue its own plans for a wall at the southern border. On Saturday, 
he accused
 the Biden administration of a &#34;complete abandonment&#34; of U.S. immigration law.
Fox News&#39; Brittany De Lea contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
