
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
, D-Calif., raised more than $32 million in the first quarter of 2021 in her bid to retain Democratic control of the 
House
 after the 2022 elections, her campaign announced Friday.
That big fundraising haul among her various fundraising committees means that Pelosi has raised more than $1 billion for Democrats since she entered House leadership in 2002, her campaign said.
This year alone, Pelosi has already targeted $25.2 million of her $32.4 million haul for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), the campaign entity designed specifically to elect House Democrats. 
PELOSI DECLINES TO WADE INTO SENATE FILIBUSTER DEBATE AS PROGRESSIVES PUSH FOR CHANGE
Pelosi&#39;s campaign said the millions reflect the public satisfaction with the Democrats&#39; agenda. 
&#34;Speaker Nancy Pelosi&#39;s massive fundraising haul is a direct testament to Democrats&#39; grassroots, political, and financial prowess that will hold the House for Democrats,&#34; said Jorge Aguilar, executive director for Nancy Pelosi for Congress. 
&#34;The American people are seeing the benefits of Democrats&#39; fight to Build Back Better, crush the virus, and save lives and livelihoods while [GOP Leader] Kevin McCarthy is painfully losing control of his reckless conference engulfed in a civil war.&#34; 
MCCARTHY RELEASES FUNDRAISING DISTRIBUTION NUMBERS IN EFFORT FOR GOP TO WIN BACK HOUSE
Meanwhile, Republicans are building their war chests in their effort to take by the House. McCarthy&#39;s team told Fox News his political operation raised more than $27 million in the first quarter of 2021, the largest haul ever by a House Republican in a single quarter. He raised a 
total of $103 million
 in the 2020 election cycle. 
Last year, Republicans didn&#39;t win back the House but came very close. At a time when Democrats and pollsters were predicting 
Pelosi
 would expand her 2018 majority by double-digits, Democrats ended up losing many swing-district seats in places like Florida, Texas, California and Iowa. 
HOUSE PASSES DC STATEHOOD BILL TO MAKE DISTRICT 51ST STATE AFTER HEATED FLOOR DEBATE
House Democrats
 currently have a 
narrow majority
 of 218 seats compared to the Republicans&#39; 212 seats, with five vacancies -- four of which were held by Democrats.

      Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill, in Washington, Thursday, Oct. 22, 2020. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana)
      
The last time the majority was this slim was 20 years ago when Republicans were in control. A House majority requires 218 seats.
The party in power in the White House traditionally loses seats during midterm elections after a presidential year, so Republicans are feeling especially optimistic about picking up more seats in 2022.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Since President Biden was elected, Republicans have been united in resisting his key legislative priorities, including the 
$1.9 trillion coronavirus package
 that passed with just Democratic support. They also have been hammering Biden about his immigration policies at a time when there&#39;s a surge of migrant children trying to cross the Southern border. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
