
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo’s
 communications director Peter Ajemian resigned Friday, making him the latest to distance himself from the multiple scandals embroiling the 
New York
 governor.   
Richard Azzopardi, the governor’s longtime advisor who has publicly gone to bat for him amid investigations into sexual harassment claims and into Cuomo’s handling of nursing homes during the pandemic, will now wear another hat as communications director.
Ajemian took on the role not yet a year ago, in August 2020, when Dani Lever left for a job in the private sector. Ajemian says he too is leaving for the private sector after nearly four years with the governor’s office. 
CUOMO DEEMS CONTROVERSIAL NURSING HOME ORDER &#39;SMART&#39; 
&#34;I’m grateful to the governor for giving me the chance to serve. It&#39;s been the honor of a lifetime to be part of a team working for New Yorkers in a period of unprecedented crisis and seeing the government work for the people and people work for each other,&#34; Ajemian said in a statement, according to 
NY1. 
Ajemian joins at least 9 former aides that have jumped ship over the past few months -- including Gareth Rhodes, part of Cuomo’s Covid-19 task force, Caitlyn Girouard, the governor’s press secretary and Jack Sterne, a New York City-based Cuomo spokesman. 
AZZOPARDI DOUBLES DOWN ATTACKING AG LETITIA JAMES
Azzopardi has gone after New York state attorney general Letitia James for being 
politically motivated
 amid her investigations into the governor. He told the New York Times last month  the state government had &#34;officially jumped the shark&#34; with James’ new 
investigation
 into the governor’s alleged use of state resources to pen his memoir, &#34;American Crisis.&#34;
Cuomo has maintained that any help on his memoir that came from government employees was voluntary. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;This is Albany politics at its worst,&#34; Azzopardi 
continued
. &#34;Both the comptroller and the attorney general have spoken to people about running for governor, and it is unethical to wield criminal referral authority to further political self-interest‎.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
