
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Exclusive:
 The 
National Rifle Association
 (NRA) has set its sights on West Virginia in a $250,000 ad buy to counter President Biden’s pick to lead the 
gun control arm
 of the federal government. 
The NRA will run a $250,000 TV ad buy in the traditionally red state in an attempt to convince West Virginians to call Sen. Joe Manchin and tell him to vote &#34;no&#34; on David Chipman for head of the Department of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF). 
REPUBLICANS GRILL BIDEN ATF NOMINEE ON PAST REMARKS ON GUNS
Manchin, a moderate Democrat, has yet to announce whether he will support the nominee, who passed through the 
Senate
 Judiciary Committee on a party-line vote last week.
Chipman will need the support of all Senate Democrats in order to gain Senate approval — assuming he gets no Republican votes — with Vice President Kamala Harris serving as the tie-breaker.
&#34;West Virginia plays an important role in national politics and its influence over this confirmation cannot be overstated,&#34; NRA spokesman Amy Hunter told Fox News. &#34;Sen. Shelley Moore Capito has made her stance clear: she will vote ‘no’ on Chipman’s nomination because she stands for law-abiding gun owners and recognizes the threat he poses.&#34;
NRA TO SPEND $2 MILLION TO COUNTER BIDEN GUN CONTROL PUSH
The 30-second ad is set to launch on the Fourth of July.
Hunter said the ad – which will run for 12 days – is a push to galvanize &#34;gun owners across West Virginia to urge Manchin to do the right thing and vote ‘no’ on Chipman.&#34;
The NRA has spent $3 million on mailers, town halls, digital advertising, text messaging, and TV ads to counter Chipman’s successful bid for the ATF’s top job.
Fox News could not immediately reach Manchin for comment.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Republicans on the Hill have said they will oppose Chipman’s nomination because of his support for banning the AR-15 rifle, which he called a &#34;particularly lethal weapon&#34; during a 
hearing
 with lawmakers in late May.
Chipman, who currently serves as a senior policy adviser to gun-violence prevention group Giffords, said he supports a congressional ban on &#34;assault weapons&#34; like AR-15s.
The 20-year ATF veteran assured lawmakers that as the head of the ATF, he would serve in a capacity that is defined by the law, rather than by his personal beliefs. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
