
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Former U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer of 
California
 suggested this week that her ex-colleague, U.S. Sen. 
Dianne Feinstein
, should consider retiring, according to a report. 
Boxer said that if she spoke to Feinstein she’d express to her that a life away from Washington can be fulfilling on its own, according to the Los Angeles Times.
&#34;If Senator Feinstein were to call me today and asked my advice, I would say only you can decide this,&#34; Boxer said in an article published on Thursday. &#34;But from my perspective, I want you to know I’ve had very productive years away from the 
Senate 
doing good things. So put that into the equation.&#34;
&#34;If Senator Feinstein were to call me today and asked my advice, I would say only you can decide this. But from my perspective, I want you to know I’ve had very productive years away from the Senate doing good things. So put that into the equation.&#34;
Boxer, 80, and Feinstein, 88, both Democrats, were first elected in 1992 when California became the first state to send two female senators to Congress. 

      Former US Senator Barbara Boxer attends a Gala Dinner to Benefit CORE and 10 Years of Life-Saving Work Across Haiti &amp;amp;amp; Around the World at Wiltern Theatre on January 15, 2020 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Michael Kovac/Getty Images for CORE Gala)
      
(Photo by Michael Kovac/Getty Images for CORE Gala)
Feinstein says she has no plans to step down despite many Democrats hoping she’ll move aside soon and make way for someone younger and more liberal. 
An article last year in 
The New Yorker
 magazine reported that Senate Majority Leader 
Chuck Schumer
, D-N.Y., and others had been concerned about Feinstein&#39;s memory and ability to focus, especially during the confirmation hearings for Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett. Feinstein balked at the criticism. 
LARRY ELDER SAYS HE WOULD REPLACE DIANNE FEINSTEIN WITH A REPUBLICAN IF HE WINS CALIFORNIA RECALL ELECTION
Meanwhile, 
Larry Elder
, the GOP frontrunner in next week&#39;s California recall election to decide whether Democratic Gov. 
Gavin Newsom
 remains in office, promised in a radio interview last week that he would replace Feinstein with a conservative if he’s elected and she steps down. 
&#34;God forbid Gov. Elder should replace Dianne Feinstein, who nobody’s seen in weeks,&#34; Elder told 
Mark Levin
 on his radio show last Friday. &#34;I&#39;m told she has a worse mental condition than even Joe Biden. They&#39;re afraid I would replace her with a Republican — which I most certainly would do and that would be an earthquake in Washington, D.C.&#34;

      U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., is seen on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, Oct. 13, 2020. (Associated Press)
      
If Feinstein were replaced with a Republican, the Republicans would take the majority in the Senate. 
Newsom, who like Feinstein is a former mayor of San Francisco, has promised to replace Feinstein with a Black woman if the senator retires.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Boxer left the Senate in 2017 and continues to stay active in politics, frequently making TV appearances, advising at the University of Southern California’s Center for the Political Future and working as a health care consultant. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
