
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Former President 
Donald Trump
 is expected to make his first trip to 
New York City
 since leaving office in the coming days, Fox News confirmed.
The news comes as Trump has re-inserted himself into national politics, including by delivering a much-anticipated address at CPAC. As recently as Friday, Trump slammed President Biden for what he described as a &#34;
spiraling tsunami
&#34; at the border, as the administration faces a spike in migrant families and unaccompanied children.
TRUMP TEARS INTO BIDEN FOR &#39;SPIRALING TSUNAMI&#39; AT THE BORDER, AMID SPIKE IN MIGRANT NUMBERS
Trump 
established
 an official post-presidency office in Palm Beach County, Fla., to oversee his affairs after leaving office in January. The born-and-bred New Yorker 
announced
 in 2019 that he changed his permanent residence to Florida. 
The upcoming trip was first 
reported
 by The New York Times&#39; Maggie Haberman. Several outlets reported that Trump could arrive in the city as soon as Sunday night.
Meanwhile, the Manhattan District Attorney&#39;s Office has 
expanded
 its criminal probe of Trump and his businesses earlier in 2021 -- issuing subpoenas for documents pertaining to a Trump property in suburban Westchester County, N.Y. 

      Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance, Jr. speaks at global cyber security symposium at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on November 18, 2015 in New York City. (Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty Images)
      
TRUMP: SUPREME COURT TAX RETURN DECISION A ‘CONTINUATION OF THE GREATEST POLITICAL WITCH HUNT’
 
&#34;The Trump Organization has nothing to hide and there is no criminal activity whatsoever,&#34; lawyer Marc Mukasey said.
The subpoenas are part of Vance’s office&#39;s vast criminal probe into possible tax and insurance fraud but also alleged hush-money payments made to women who claim they had sex with the president. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It has been known since last summer that New York state Attorney General Letitia James was investigating possible fraudulent inflation of the Westchester property. 
Fox News&#39; Erin McEwan, Morgan Phillips, Marta Dhanis and Bradford Betz contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
