
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The Liberty Counsel founder Mat Staver and Harvest Rock Church founder Rev. Ché Ahn join ‘Fox and Friends.’
The state of 
California
 has agreed not to impose greater 
coronavirus
 restrictions on church gatherings than it does on retail establishments in a pair of settlements that provide more than $2 million in fees to lawyers who challenged the rules as a violation of religious freedom.
A deal approved Tuesday by a federal judge comes after lawyers for a San Diego-area Pentecostal church took their challenge against the state to the 
U.S. Supreme Court
 three times and won.
The settlement includes a permanent injunction in line with Supreme Court rulings that found restrictions on houses of worship cannot exceed those on retail businesses, attorney Paul Jonna said.
&#34;If they’re gonna restrict Costco to 50%, then they can do the same thing to churches,&#34; Jonna said. &#34;But what they were doing before, as you may remember, is they were keeping those places open and they were shutting down churches — at least in California — completely.&#34;
CALIFORNIA PRINCIPAL DROPS BOMBSHELL POSSIBLE REASON FOR BEING LET GO BEFORE CONTROVERSIAL SPEECH
The settlement has little practical impact after a 
Supreme Court
 ruling led the state in April to lift limits on indoor worship. As the state’s case rate of 
COVID-19
 has plummeted since a deadly winter surge and vaccination rates rise, Gov. 
Gavin Newsom 
is poised to lift all restrictions on June 15.
Newsom’s
 office issued a statement saying he put the health of 
Californians
 first when he imposed closure orders. It said the settlements provide clarity on how public health standards can be applied to churches.
Newsom
 was the first governor to issue a statewide stay-home order at the start of the 
pandemic
 in March 2020. His various closure orders and modifications that allowed certain businesses to open at different capacities were challenged in state and federal courts.
The public health orders were generally upheld until religious groups won a string of victories after a change in the Supreme Court makeup last year when liberal Justice 
Ruth Bader Ginsburg
 died and was replaced by conservative Justice Amy Coney Barrett.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
While the settlements only apply to restrictions issued for the 
COVID-19 pandemic
 Jonna said he does not believe the state would impose harsher restrictions on churches in the future because of the Supreme Court rulings.
The settlements involve a federal lawsuits brought by South Bay United Pentecostal Church in Chula Vista and Father Trevor Burfitt, a Catholic priest in Bakersfield, who sued in Kern County Superior Court.
Lawyers for the Thomas More Society, a conservative public interest law firm, will receive $1.6 million in legal fees in the South Bay case and $550,000 in the Burfitt case.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
