
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden and first lady Jill Biden were caught violating Washington, D.C.&#39;s indoor mask mandate by walking through a high-end Georgetown restaurant without masks on Saturday.
The maskless Bidens were recorded leaving Fiola Mare while flanked by masked Secret Service agents.
The two dined at the 
pricey
 Italian seafood restaurant on the Potomac River after attending a service at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Georgetown, according to 
The Daily Mail
.
Washington, D.C.&#39;s Democratic Mayor Muriel Bowser 
reinstated
 an indoor mask mandate in July amid the surge of the delta variant. The Bidens also violated Fiola Mare&#39;s mask policy, which mirrors the city&#39;s.
TUCKER CARLSON: GAVIN NEWSOM&#39;S FRENCH LAUNDRY BIRTHDAY DINNER GOES BEYOND MERE HYPOCRISY
&#34;Per CDC guidance and DC Mayor Muriel Bowser’s executive order, all individuals over age 2 are required to wear a mask indoors, regardless of vaccination status. Masks must be always worn while in our restaurants, except while eating and drinking. Thank you for understanding,&#34; the restaurant&#39;s 
website
 says.
Fiola Mare did not respond to Fox News&#39; request for comment in time for publication.
Establishments that fail to enforce Bowser&#39;s 
executive order
 face potential warnings, fines and the revocation of licenses, though the order also notes: &#34;The enforcement provisions of this Order shall not be applied to persons in the federal government or legislative branch of the District government while those persons are on duty.&#34;
The Bidens&#39; behavior echoed that of Bowser, who has repeatedly been photographed flouting her own mask mandates.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
Hours before her indoor 
mask mandate
 went into effect in July, Bowser was photographed without a face mask during her own birthday celebration with comedian Dave Chappelle.
Hours after her indoor mask mandate went into effect, she was 
photographed without a mask
 during an indoor wedding reception.
Bowser 
sparked backlash
 again in September when she 
tweeted
 a picture of herself with a group of women at an indoor Jack and Jill summit without a mask.
Fox News&#39; Caitlin McFall contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
