
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Haroon checks back in with ‘Fox &amp; Friends’ as he continues to try to leave the country.
A bipartisan group of more than 50 
senators
 is calling on President 
Biden
 to immediately evacuate Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) applicants and their families as 
Afghanistan
 falls further into chaos following the country’s rapid takeover by Taliban insurgents.
&#34;Specifically, we urge continued coordination between the Departments of State and Defense to secure and hold Hamid Karzai International Airport, including to allow for the continuation of military flights and the resumption of commercial and charter flights,&#34; the senators, led by Republican Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst and Democratic New Hampshire Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, 
wrote in a letter
 obtained by Fox News.
TALIBAN FIRE AT AFGHANS CELEBRATING INDEPENDENCE DAY: LIVE UPDATES
&#34;We also urge your administration to assist with the passage of individuals to the airport to safety – both those within Kabul and those outside of the capital – as well as to consider cases where Afghans fleeing quickly may not have been able to collect or gather appropriate documents,&#34; the letter states.
The letter comes as thousands of Americans and vulnerable Afghans remain stranded in the country since its collapse, with U.S. troops and diplomats scrambling to get them on flights out of the airport in Kabul, which is surrounded by Taliban militants trying to block access.
Senate Minority Leader 
Mitch McConnell
, R-Ky., 
told Fox News
 Tuesday that 
President Biden&#39;s
 hasty withdrawal strategy has left as many as 15,000 Americans outside Kabul with limited transportation resources to reach the airport.
Afghan women, activists and those who worked with the U.S. military 
are also appealing
 to the Biden administration to speed up the process for accepting SIV applicants. 
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Wednesday that evacuations would continue &#34;until the clock runs out or we run out of capability,&#34; but that the U.S. did not &#34;have the capability to go out and collect large numbers of people,&#34; including Americans, who may be stranded outside Kabul.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In their letter Thursday, the senators also called for the &#34;immediate and full implementation&#34; of recently-passed legislation amending the process and eligibility for the SIV program and for the urgent evacuation of SIV applicants &#34;whose service to the U.S. mission has put their lives in jeopardy.&#34; 
&#34;As you know, this critical program provides safety for the brave Afghans who served alongside United States troops in support of the U.S. missions in Afghanistan,&#34; they wrote. 
&#34;As the situation in Afghanistan deteriorates, these individuals face increased danger at the hands of the Taliban that has sworn retribution. For this reason, Congress provided additional authorities to improve and expedite the application process while maintaining the program’s security and integrity. We implore your administration to expeditiously implement these changes and immediately evacuate our Afghan allies to safety.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
