
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Vice President 
Kamala Harris
 made a surprise appearance at the Pride event in 
Washington
 on Saturday but it was one of her protectors who drew the attention of many Twitter users.
Any time a president or vice president mingles with the public becomes a challenge for those charged with guarding them – simply because the situation is less under 
security
’s control.
Much of the Twitter attention was directed at a Secret Service agent near the vice president, a tall man in sunglasses who was seen behind Harris in photos and videos as she traversed the parade area.
&#34;secret service clearly not happy about protectee going for a walk,&#34; lawyer George Conway wrote on Twitter.
Conway was responding to a video clip that shows Harris addressing a crowd at an intersection as the Secret Service agent scanned the scene around her.

      Vice President Kamala Harris joins marchers for the Capital Pride Parade on June 12, 2021 in Washington, D.C. (Getty Images)
      
KAMALA HARRIS BECOMES FIRST SITTING VP TO JOIN PRIDE MARCH, CALLS FOR PASSAGE OF GOP-OPPOSED EQUALITY ACT
&#34;this kind of spontaneous public engagement (especially in a crowd that size) is anxiety inducing for the agents,&#34; another observed, in response to a video showing Harris and second gentleman Douglas Emhoff surrounded by marchers. (Several men around them gave the appearance of being Secret Service agents as they turned their heads left and right while other people marched forward.)
Others on Twitter made more lighthearted remarks.
&#34;This secret service agent is all of us trying to remember how to socialize after a year of Zoom and quarantine,&#34; one observer wrote.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Some noticed the casual attire of the agents.
&#34;The secret service ‘blending’ outfits have me (laughing emoji),&#34; one person wrote.
&#34;By far the best part of this is that the secret service officer thought a bowling shirt was the default pride parade outfit,&#34; another wrote.
Others seemed to recognize the difficult job that Secret Service agents do.
&#34;Appreciation post to the secret service guy who was ALWAYS by @VP’s side,&#34; one Twitter user wrote.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
