
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Retired ICE agent Victor Avila, whose partner was murdered by a drug cartel in Mexico, provides insight on President Biden’s border agenda.
EXCLUSIVE
: More than two dozen 
House Republicans
 on Wednesday urged the Biden administration to oppose efforts to weaken screening for immigrants and refugees coming to the U.S. over 
national security concerns
.
&#34;We are extremely concerned with the Biden Administration’s plans to weaken screening and vetting for foreign nationals coming to the United States, including refugee applicants in the [U.S. Refugee Admissions Program] and other humanitarian-based U.S. immigration programs,&#34; the letter, signed by 26 House Republicans says.
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION&#39;S CBP REVIVES &#39;CATCH AND RELEASE&#39; POLICY AT BORDER AMID COVID CONCERNS 
GOP to State, DHS on Vetting
 by 
Fox News
 on Scribd
&#34;These plans, as seen in a number of recent Executive Orders, will lead to the permanent resettlement in American communities of more refugees and other humanitarian-based immigrants -- as promised by the Biden-Harris campaign -- at the expense of our national security and public safety.&#34;
The letter includes Reps. Andy Biggs, R-Ariz.; Yvette Herrell, R-N.M.; Chip Roy, R-Texas; Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo.; and Bill Posey, R-Fla.
The letter comes after Biden 
moved to dramatically increase
 the number of refugees the U.S. takes in a year from 15,000 to 125,000. Part of that move would reportedly involve reducing vetting restrictions imposed by the Trump administration.
The U.S. is expected to return to the referral system by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. The Republicans claim the order by Biden, in seeking to improve the &#34;efficacy&#34; of vetting is in fact an attempt to weaken screening.
The lawmakers note that the order on refugees revokes prior Trump-era orders, including one that directed the refugee program be administered in a risk-based manner. They accuse Biden of promoting fraud by encouraging remote interviews via video and audio.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS WARN BIDEN OF ESCALATING MIGRATION CRISIS AMID SURGE IN BORDER NUMBERS 
The lawmakers also claim that sections allow failed refugee applicants to review their case file, meaning that those applicants could &#34;improve&#34; their stories on appeal, and expands the definition of refugee to potentially include those displaced by climate change.
&#34;Even worse, the Biden Administration’s plan to weaken screening and vetting with the aim of resettling more refugees from abroad in American communities ignores the refugee crisis right under its nose,&#34; they say. &#34;By this, we mean the backlog of more than 1.1 million asylum-seekers who already are inside the United States and who are awaiting adjudication of their claims.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The letter requests a briefing on the administration’s actions about vetting and refugees, and urgest both DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas and Secretary of State Antony Blinken to oppose efforts to weaken screening, and to instead build on the moves made under the Trump administration.
It represents the latest concern by Republicans over the Biden administration’s  immigration moves. 
On Tuesday more than 50 Republicans
 warned President Biden of a brewing &#34;crisis&#34; of 
illegal migration
 at the southern border amid indications of a surge in numbers.
Fox News&#39; William LaJeunesse and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
