
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
President Biden’s climate czar defends taking private flight to Iceland in 2019 to accept an environmental award. Reaction from Marc Morano, executive director of climatedepot.com
Leading 
environmental
 groups have been mostly mum when it comes to what many have described as a hypocritical use of private aviation by the nation&#39;s top 
climate
 adviser.
Fox News reported on Wednesday that John Kerry, the White House&#39;s special envoy on climate, previously took a private jet to Iceland, where he picked up an award for his leadership on the issue.
FAA records have indicated that his family still owns a private jet, which emitted 
116 metric tons
 over the past year, or roughly 25 times more than the federal government says a typical passenger vehicle emits in a year.
Regardless, top groups in the fight against climate change haven&#39;t been as critical as others who accused Kerry of glaring hypocrisy. Neither the Sierra Club, World Wildlife Fund, Greenpeace, nor Environmental Defense Fund responded to Fox News&#39; requests for comment. When contacted, the Natural Resources Defense Council referred Fox News to the White House, which has not responded to repeated requests for comment.
JOHN KERRY TOOK PRIVATE JET TO ICELAND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD, CALLED IT &#39;ONLY CHOICE FOR SOMEBODY LIKE ME&#39;
Their primary Twitter and Facebook feeds didn&#39;t address the controversy either.
Groups did spend time praising President Biden. Greenpeace created an animated video celebrating Biden&#39;s entry into the White House. The Sierra Club 
retweeted
 a post from Kerry as well as a message welcoming him to the movement.
Private jets have been estimated to emit 
upward of 40 times
 as much carbon per passenger as commercial flights.
Revelations about Kerry&#39;s outsized carbon footprint came as Democrats have considered proposals to overhaul the nation&#39;s energy economy, with potentially 
skyrocketing costs
 for households and individual Americans.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden&#39;s climate proposal is estimated to cost at least $1.7 trillion. That could grow, however, depending on how Democrats negotiate with him in Congress, where progressives such as Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., have been adamant about passing the ambitious Green New Deal.
During the campaign, Biden said he would use the Green New Deal as a framework for his climate plan, although his proposal cost significantly less than other plans that adopted that framework. Regardless, Biden&#39;s plan aims for the type of economy-wide transformation advocated by more left-leaning members of his party.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
