
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Residents in 
President Biden’s
 home state of Delaware – which he represented in the Senate for more than three decades – saw a $15 decrease in their 
utility
 bills in 2018, replacing the anticipated $65 increase. 
The reason was the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, according to the 
Delaware Public Service Commission
, in announcing the rate cut from Delmarva. The 
tax
 reform package that 
President Trump
 signed in late 2017, among other things, slashed the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. 
Delaware is one of at least 38 states to pass along the corporate tax rate cut to customers, according to 
data
 compiled by Americans for Tax Reform. That includes the current president’s birth state, where the 
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
 announced in 2018 a monthly credit to customer bills for 17 electric, natural gas, and water and wastewater utilities, totaling more than $320 million.
INFLATION NUMBER SURGES BY MOST SINCE 2008 RECESSION, WITH CONSUMER PRICES JUMPING 5% OVER LAST YEAR
Now the Biden administration is proposing to increase the corporate tax to 28%. That’s still lower than it was before Trump’s tax reform package – but some fear enough to force power bills to increase. 
Investor-owned utility companies, such as electric, gas and water companies, are regulated entities and required by law to get their billing rates approved by state public utility commissions. The commissions must consider how tax liability and other expenses factor into the cost of operation. Utility companies have significantly less flexibility in how to absorb such costs. 
&#34;Those taxes are passed directly to the public utility customers,&#34; Americans for Tax Reform President Grover Norquist told Fox News. &#34;With public utilities, all agreed to the rate of return. … Regulated businesses can’t move money around.&#34;
The Trump corporate tax cut in 2017 reportedly led more than 100 public utilities across the country to return 
$90 billion
 to customers, according to annual SEC 10-K filings. After the tax cut, public service commissions had to enter settlements with public utility companies to determine what to do with the excess accumulated deferred income tax balances, or EADIT.
Biden has repeatedly promised that he would not increase taxes on anyone earning less than $400,000 annually. However, because of how utility rates are determined, these corporate tax hikes could turn into an indirect tax on utility rate payers.
COTTON PRESSES DEFENSE SECRETARY ON ‘ANTI-AMERICAN INDOCTRINATION’ AS AUSTIN DEFENDS DIVERSITY PUSH
White House press secretary Jen Psaki dismissed this concern when asked about it in April. 
&#34;Well, I would say that there&#39;s no reason that that is what needs to happen. We have evidence of what happens,&#34; Psaki 
said
. &#34;Back in 2017, when Republicans prioritized tax cuts for big corporations over investing in working people, there were many arguments made about what the impact would be: the benefits would be passed on to consumers, they would invest in R&amp;D, there would be jobs created. None of that happened.  …  So I would say that&#39;s not a concern we have at this moment in time.&#34;
The utility rate cuts that accompanied the corporate tax cut spanned the country in red, blue and battleground states. This included some of the most populous states, such as 
Texas
, where at least 10 companies cut rates; New Jersey, where 
14 utility companies
 passed it on to customers; Virginia, where at least a 
dozen companies
 cut rates; and nine companies out of 
Ohio
 and six companies in 
Illinois
 passed along the savings. Residents in smaller states, such as Utah and Vermont, also benefited, as did ratepayers in both Carolinas, both Dakotas and the two early presidential contest states of Iowa and New Hampshire. 
As with any legislation, Biden will have to rely on the support of Democratic Sens. Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona and Joe Manchin of West Virginia. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In Arizona, at least 
10 utility companies
, including electric, water and waste water companies, cut rates or provided refunds in the hundreds of millions, attributed to the corporate tax cut. In West Virginia, at least three companies passed on savings from the corporate rate cut to customers. These were Appalachian Power Company, which reportedly 
saved
 $235 million; Potomac Edison that reportedly saved 
$85 million
 and West Virginia American Water Company reportedly saved 
$4.6 million
. 
&#34;Any increase in the corporate tax rate increases the bills you pay, particularly with publicly regulated corporations,&#34; Norquist said. &#34;This is going to affect the public utilities in all 50 states.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
