
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The president says reports of reopening schools only one day a week &#39;was a mistake in communication.
There&#39;s still no date on the books.
The 
White House
 has not yet scheduled a date for 
President Biden
 to deliver his first address to a joint session of Congress -- even though the president had suggested it would take place this month.
Past presidents have traditionally given a speech to Congress during their first year in office, often in February. An address to a joint session of Congress is like a State of the Union, though it technically is not called that until the president’s second year in office.
NEERA TANDEN, XAVIER BECERRA UNDER FIRE AS BIDEN NOMINEES FIGHT TO SURVIVE CONFIRMATION BATTLES
Biden suggested last month he would discuss his coronavirus agenda during an address this month.
&#34;Next month, in my first appearance before a joint session of Congress, I will lay out my ‘Build Back Better’ recovery plan,&#34; Biden said on Jan. 14.
Ronald Reagan -- Feb. 18, 1981
George H.W. Bush -- Feb. 9, 1989
Bill Clinton -- Feb. 17, 1993
George W. Bush -- Feb. 27, 2001
Barack Obama -- Feb. 24, 2009
Donald Trump -- Feb. 28, 2017
Joe Biden -- TBA
But White House press secretary Jen Psaki last week told reporters that while the president &#34;looks forward&#34; to making the address, the White House has not scheduled when that will take place.
She said the speech would be different than past presidential addresses because of the coronavirus pandemic.
&#34;Obviously the president looks forward to speaking to a joint session,&#34; Psaki said. &#34;We just don’t have a date yet for when that will be and obviously it will look different because of COVID and because we want to be safe and project that the safety and our responsibility of projecting that to the American public.&#34;
Typically, new presidents deliver their addresses just weeks after the inauguration.
Former President George H.W. Bush delivered one of the earliest addresses to a joint session, taking place on Feb. 9, 1989. Former President Trump delivered one of the latest—his address was on Feb. 28, 2017.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Former President Barack Obama delivered his address on Feb. 24, 2009; former President George W. Bush delivered his on Feb. 27, 2001; and former President Bill Clinton delivered his on Feb. 17.
Should Biden’s address slip into March, it would be the latest Joint Session address in decades.
Presidents, during their first congressional address, tend to establish the tone of their new administration, with optimistic language to look ahead, and to set their legislative agenda as well as outline their positions on a range of policy issues.
BIDEN HAS SIGNED DOZENS OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS, ACTIONS, DIRECTIVES SINCE TAKING OFFICE
Biden, since taking office, has signed dozens of executive orders, actions and directives, with Biden officials telling Fox News that the moves are &#34;previews&#34; of the agenda items the president will push in Congress. They have been focused on environmental regulations, the climate crisis, immigration policies, racial justice, health care and more.
Biden has already pushed his $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan coronavirus package to Capitol Hill-- the House is expected to take up the legislation later this month. And Psaki said gun control is a &#34;priority&#34; for the president, though he has not formally proposed legislation to Congress. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
