
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
U.S. Sen. Susan Collins, R-
Maine
, said Wednesday that she will vote to confirm U.S. Rep. Deb Haaland of 
New Mexico
 to become secretary of the interior.
Haaland, who was nominated for the job by President Biden, would become the first Native American to serve in a 
Cabinet
-level position if confirmed for the position.
Collins decided to back Haaland’s nomination after reviewing her qualifications, considering the nominee’s responses at a 
Senate
 Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing and meeting with the nominee, 
the Bangor Daily News reported
.
The endorsement made Collins the first Republican to express support for Haaland, 
the Huffington Post reported
.
HHS NOMINEE BECERRA VOTE IN SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE ENDS IN A TIE
&#34;While we certainly have different views on some issues, her role in helping to shepherd the Great American Outdoors Act through the House will be beneficial to the Department’s implementation of this landmark conservation law, which I co-sponsored,&#34; Collins said in a statement, 
according to The Hill
. &#34;I also appreciate Representative Haaland’s willingness to support issues important to the State of Maine, such as Acadia National Park, as well as her deep knowledge of tribal issues.&#34;

      U.S. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, speaks in Washington, Sept. 23, 2020. (Getty Images)
      
Haaland’s nomination previously received a boost last week when Democratic U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said he would support her for the Interior job.
Manchin said Haaland 
had earned his vote
, despite 
disagreements over drilling
 on federal lands and the Keystone XL oil pipeline.
BIDEN&#39;S FAILURE TO GET TANDEN CONFIRMED FOLLOWS OTHER ABORTED PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS IN HISTORY
&#34;I believe Deb Haaland will be a secretary of the Interior for every American and will vote to confirm her,″ Manchin said in a statement. &#34;While we do not agree on every issue, she reaffirmed her strong commitment to bipartisanship, addressing the diverse needs of our country and maintaining our nation’s energy independence.″

      U.S. Rep. Deb Haaland, D-N.M. (Deb Haaland Campaign)
      
Manchin, along with U.S. Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, D-Ariz, are seen as key votes in the Senate on many issues with the Senate divided nearly evenly between Democrats and Republicans. The GOP holds a slight 50-48 edge, but two independents caucus with Democrats and the Democrats hold a potential tie-breaking vote in Vice President Kamala Harris, who serves as Senate president.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Both Manchin and Collins previously said they would reject the nomination of Biden pick Neera Tanden to lead the Office of Management and Budget. Sensing a failed nomination, Biden withdrew Tanden’s name from consideration this week.
 
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
