
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
EXCLUSIVE:
 The man who allegedly 
raped
 a woman in front of passengers on a 
Philadelphia
 area-train already has a criminal record and had overstayed his student visa – but was protected from deportation by the immigration system.
Tucker Carlson Tonight
 has confirmed that Fiston Ngoy, who was arrested last week for 
allegedly raping the woman
 in a brutal attack on a SEPTA train in front of other passengers, came to the U.S. legally in 2012 on a student visa.
WOMAN RAPED ON TRAIN AS BYSTANDERS DID NOTHING, POLICE SAY
However, the 35-year-old Congolese national&#39;s visa was terminated in 2015 because he failed to remain a student. 
Meanwhile, court records show that he racked up &#34;multiple arrests and two misdemeanor convictions, one for controlled substances and one for sexual abuse.&#34; Ngoy pled guilty in 2017 in Washington D.C. to the sexual abuse misdemeanor and was sentenced to 120 days in prison and nine months probation.
He was put in immigration detention in Jan. 2018. However, he was never deported because he received a &#34;withholding of removal&#34; from an immigration judge in March 2019 after the Board of Immigration Appeals found that his misdemeanor sex offense was not a &#34;serious crime&#34; that would have made him ineligible for such a stay.
As a result, Ngoy was released and only had to report into Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) under an order of supervision (OSUP). 
The Department of Homeland Security
 says OSUPs involve conditions being placed on those who have been temporarily released from custody, typically involving regular check ins.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Police in Philadelphia 
said
 on Monday that the attack on the train lasted six minutes in front of bystanders who did nothing and took out their phones to film. The only person to call 911 was an off-duty SEPTA employee, who called Transit Police officers -- who arrived three minutes later to interrupt the violent assault and arrest the man.
&#34;We want everyone to be angry, disgusted, and to join us in being resolute in keeping our system safe,&#34; Transit Police Chief Thomas Nestel III said at a news conference, according to 
The Philadelphia Inquirer.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
