
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News&#39; Kevin Corke reports on overcrowding in migrant facilities on &#39;Fox News @ Night&#39;
WASHINGTON (AP) — President 
Joe Biden’s son Hunter 
says his service on the board of a Ukrainian gas company, which Republicans tried to turn into a negative during the 2020 presidential campaign, wasn’t unethical and didn’t represent a lack of judgment on his part.
But the younger Biden wouldn’t do it again if given a chance, he says in a new book, citing partisan politics.
HUNTER BIDEN GUN INCIDENT IN 2018 LED TO POLICE INVESTIGATION 
&#34;I did nothing unethical, and have never been charged with wrongdoing,&#34; Hunter Biden writes in &#34;Beautiful Things,&#34; a memoir. &#34;In our current political environment, I don’t believe it would make any difference if I took that seat or not. I’d be attacked anyway.&#34;
&#34;What I do believe, in this current climate, is that it wouldn’t matter what I did or didn’t do,&#34; he wrote. &#34;The attacks weren’t intended for me. They were meant to wound my dad.&#34;
In the memoir, which is scheduled to be released on Tuesday, the president’s son chronicles a lifelong battle with alcohol and drug addiction and numerous stints in and out of rehab.
Hunter Biden writes that his descent into darkness followed the death of his older brother, Beau, of brain cancer in 2015 at age 46. He ends the book where he currently is in life: sober, living in California with his second wife, Melissa Cohen Biden, and their baby son, Beau. Hunter Biden also has three daughters from his previous marriage.
GOP SENATORS SEEK HUNTER BIDEN GUN INFORMATION
During the 2020 campaign against Democrat Joe Biden, President Donald Trump, a Republican, and his allies repeatedly sought to make an issue of the younger Biden’s work for the 
Ukrainian gas company Burisma. 
Trump alleged unspecified shady dealings by the Bidens despite the lack of evidence of any wrongdoing by either candidate Biden or his son.
Trump ultimately was impeached by the Democratic-controlled U.S. House for pushing Kyiv to investigate the Biden family. The Republican-controlled Senate voted to keep Trump in office.
Hunter Biden writes that his only misjudgment was not considering, back in 2014 when he joined Burisma’s board to help oversee its corporate practices, that Trump would be in the White House three years into the future.
A lawyer and former lobbyist, he joined Burisma’s board around the time his father was vice president and helping conduct the Obama administration’s foreign policy in Eastern Europe.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Trump and others had insisted without evidence that Hunter Biden was exploiting his father’s name, and they raised unsubstantiated charges of corruption.
&#34;Knowing all of that now: No, I would not do it again,&#34; Hunter Biden wrote. &#34;I wouldn’t take the seat on Burisma’s board. Trump would have to look elsewhere to find a suitable distraction for his impeachable behavior.&#34;
The book’s title, &#34;Beautiful Things,&#34; is an expression Hunter Biden and his brother would use with each other after Beau’s diagnosis and was meant to stress what was important in life.
The memoir was in the works before Joe Biden became the front-runner in the Democratic presidential campaign. It was kept under wraps even as Hunter Biden’s business dealings became a fixation of Trump and his allies during the election, and his finances the subject of a Justice Department investigation.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
