
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Dr. Francis Collins reacts to the CDC&#39;s overblown coronavirus outdoor transmission rate on &#39;The Story&#39;
Multiple states dropped their 
mask mandates
 Friday following the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) latest 
guidelines
, but some liberal elites are not quite ready to let go of their face cloths. 
The announcement that fully vaccinated individuals no longer need to wear masks indoors prompted more than a dozen states to announce plans to reverse their face covering requirements either immediately or in the coming weeks.
COVID RESTRICTIONS: WHAT STATES HAVE EASED RULES FOLLOWING UPDATED CDC GUIDANCE
But some liberal elites took to social media to say they will not be ditching their masks any time soon despite CDC assurances. 
&#34;Hundreds of people are still dying from COVID every day, multiple new variants are out there, although vaccinated I’m still gonna wear my mask in places where others may be unvaccinated,&#34; actress Mia Farrow tweeted Friday. 
&#34;I am still going to wear a mask in public just sayin,&#34; added actress Rosanna Arquette.
Others agreed that they would continue to don a mask outside, but not necessarily for health reasons. 
&#34;I feel the need to continue wearing my mask outside even though I’m fully vaccinated because the inconvenience of having to wear a mask is more than worth it to have people not think I’m a conservative,&#34; gun control activist David Hogg said. 
Connecticut, Colorado, Delaware, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington State, and Rhode Island all announced some form of new mask guidelines this week. 
Three Republican governed states also announced they would waive mask guidelines per CDC guidance, including Ohio, Maryland and Vermont.
Businesses like Costco, 
Trader Joe&#39;s
 and 
Walmart 
announced Friday they will no longer require vaccinated people to wear masks inside their stores. 
But some on social media have questioned how people can safely trust whether those who will now forego wearing a mask have actually been vaccinated. 
CDC ISSUES NEW MASK-WEARING GUIDANCE FOR FULLY VACCINATED AMERICANS
&#34;My question about the new mask guidelines is: how is anyone supposed to know who is vaccinated? Businesses have no way of checking,&#34; NPR host Lourdes Garcia Navarro asked.
Others pointed to the political stigma that has arisen when it comes to wearing a mask.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Masks are still required on all forms of public transportation including buses, trains and planes. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
