
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News correspondent Peter Doocy has the latest on the president&#39;s speech at the U.S. on &#39;Special Report&#39;
Federal law enforcement agencies in the 
Biden
 administration are reportedly purchasing surveillance drones from 
China
 that have previously been labeled a potential national security threat by the 
Pentagon
. 
The U.S. Secret Service and the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation
 have recently acquired surveillance drones from the Shenzhen-based company DJI, around the same time the Defense Department deemed products from the Chinese company to be a potential national security threat, 
according to an Axios report
.
DOBRIANSKY AND RUNDE: CHINA&#39;S POWER INSIDE THE UN IS GROWING RAPIDLY AND US MUST UP ITS GAME
Procurement records show that the Secret Service bought eight DJI drones on July 26 just three days after the Defense Department 
issued
 a statement warning about possible threats posed by the company’s products. 
Around the same time, records show that the FBI bought 19 drones from DJI.
DJI is one of the most popular drone manufacturers in the industry, and the company requires those who purchase their products to download proprietary software and provide to users their own mapping databases that have the potential to be monitored remotely.
JIM GILMORE: BIDEN&#39;S AFGHANISTAN DEBACLE INCREASES RISK OF &#39;HOT WAR&#39; WITH RUSSIA, CHINA
Concerns about the company’s products being used to advance China’s interests have been longstanding and include a 2017 
statement
 from the Department of Homeland Security that claimed with  &#34;moderate confidence&#34;  that DJI was &#34;providing U.S. critical infrastructure and law enforcement data to the Chinese government.&#34;
The Interior Department, which owns DJI products, 
grounded
 its entire non-emergency drone fleet in 2019 due to concerns about Chinese government intrusion. 
&#34;Given everything we know about the Chinese Communist Party and its companies, there is absolutely no excuse for any government agency to use DJI drones, or any other drones manufactured in countries identified as national security threats,&#34; Republican Sen. Marco Rubio told Axios in a statement.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
A Pentagon ban on purchasing off-the-shelf Chinese drones provides an exception for agencies who are buying them to study the devices and ways to counteract possible Chinese hacking. Some experts who spoke to Axios said that’s a possible reason for the recent purchases. 
The Defense Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
