
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden
 on Wednesday disclosed the names of eight 
judicial
 nominees, including three picks for the 
U.S. Court
 of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The choices for the Ninth Circuit were intended to address a Biden pledge to add diversity to the judicial branch of government, a White House news release said.
Nominated for the 
San Francisco
-based Ninth Circuit were Judge Lucy Koh, currently a district judge in Northern 
California
; Justice Gabriel Sanchez, currently an associate justice on the California First District Court of Appeal; and Los Angeles County Judge Holly Thomas.
Thomas, if confirmed, would become the second Black woman to serve on the Ninth Circuit, The Hill reported, while Koh would become the first Korean-American federal appellate judge.
SUPREME COURT ANNOUNCES RETURN TO COURTROOM IN OCTOBER
The other five Biden picks announced Wednesday: Los Angeles County Judge Maame Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong was nominated to the Central District of California; Magistrate Judge Katherine Marie Menendez was selected for the District of Minnesota; Magistrate Judge Jennifer Thurston was named for the Eastern District of California; David Herrera Urias, an Albuquerque attorney, was chosen for the District of New Mexico; and Los Angeles County Judge Hernan Vera was nominated to the Central District of California.
The group of eight nominees marked Biden’s seventh round of judicial choices since taking office in January.
Biden so far has nominated a total of 43 candidates to become federal judges, 
the Washington Times reported
.
His predecessor, former President Donald Trump, nominated more than 200 candidates to judg
e
ships during his term, according to The Hill.
Liberal groups hailed Biden’s latest selections, which included a total of three Latino nominees.
&#34;The inclusion of three extremely well-qualified Latino nominees, each with a track record of supporting civil rights, and two of whom spent part of their exemplary legal careers at MALDEF, demonstrates the Biden Administration’s commitment to including judges in our federal system beyond the usual former prosecutors and big-firm partners,&#34; Thomas Saenz, president and general counsel of MALDEF, said in a statement following the announcement, according to The Hill.
MALDEF is the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.
Christopher Kang, chief counsel at the progressive group Demand Justice, praised Biden for the nominees who have experience in civil rights law.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;By nominating lawyers with experience standing up for civil rights, consumers, and people accused of crimes, the administration is building on its clear commitment to improving professional diversity on a bench dominated by former prosecutors and corporate lawyers,&#34; Kang 
said
.
As of August, Biden was outpacing Trump in having his judicial nominees confirmed by the Senate, 
The Hill reported
. Biden had nine appointees confirmed by Aug. 8, compared to Trump’s five, the report said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
