
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
MediaBuzz host Howard Kurtz on the possibility of Trump announcing a second run for the White House.
Former President 
Donald Trump
 is set to return to Iowa next month where he will hold a rally in Des Moines, a source familiar with the former president&#39;s political operation has confirmed to Fox News.
The rally, first 
reported
 by the Des Moines Register, will be held on October 9 at the Iowa State Fairgrounds. This will be Trump&#39;s first trip back to the first-in-the-nation caucus state since the 2020 election.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
As reported by the Des Moines Register, Trump &#34;returned to Iowa frequently in the closing days of the 2020 election, holding a rally in Des Moines on Oct. 15, 2020. He last visited Iowa for a rally in Dubuque on Nov. 1, 2020 — two days before the election.&#34;
Trump won Iowa in both the 2016 and 2020 presidential elections. He edged out Biden in the 2020 presidential election in Iowa, receiving 
53.2 percent
 of the state&#39;s vote versus Biden&#39;s 45 percent. Trump carried the state by 9.4 percentage points in 2016.
Trump&#39;s visit to the Hawkeye state raises speculation as to whether the former president will seek to return to the White House through the 2024 presidential election.
Last week, Trump took aim at President 
Joe Biden
 for his withdrawal from 
Afghanistan
 with an ad titled &#34;
Failure
.&#34;
The spot – backed by a very modest ad buy – ran briefly on cable TV, according to officials with Trump’s Save America PAC, which produced the commercial. Save America is also currently fundraising off the ad.
Fox News&#39; Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report.
Kyle Morris covers politics for Fox News and is a graduate of the University of Alabama. Follow him on Twitter: 
@RealKyleMorris
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
