
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News contributor Robert Wolf debates economist Steve Moore over the size of the president&#39;s stimulus plan
Despite tackling the 
COVID-19 pandemic
 in vastly different ways, 
California
 and 
Florida
 have experienced similar trends with the number of cases and death rate on the decline in recent weeks. 
California has emerged as one of the strictest states in the nation, with 
Gov. Gavin Newsom
, a Democrat, 
shutting down businesses
 and 
schools
. His administration said it was implementing these measures based on counties’ ICU capacity. 
Meanwhile, Florida 
Gov. Ron DeSantis
, a Republican, has taken an entirely different approach. Though he took similar measures to Newsom early on in the pandemic, he eventually lifted statewide restrictions on the economy and prohibited law enforcement for fining people. 
The latest data from Johns Hopkins University shows California has reported nearly 3.5 million COVID-19 cases in total, while Florida has reported more than 1.82 million.  

      FILE: Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis answers questions during a press conference on the expanded rollout of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, at Orlando Health South Seminole Hospital in Longwood, Fla. 
      
(Orlando Sentinel via AP)
Florida’s population is slightly more than half of California’s. But even with that considered, both states have reported similar percentages of cases and deaths compared with the overall population.
California’s total number of COVID-19 cases as a percentage of the population is about 8.8%, while Florida’s is about 8.3%. Out of all of the people in California who have gotten COVID-19, about 1.35% have died, while in Florida, it’s about 1.57%, according to Johns Hopkins University. 
&#39;IT IS A SCANDAL&#39;: FORMER SECRETARY OF EDUCATION BLASTS BIDEN ADMINISTRATION OVER SCHOOL CLOSURES
Over the past seven days, Florida has recorded 322 cases and 7.4 deaths per million people, while California has recorded 231 cases and 10.5 deaths per million people. In terms of hospitalizations, Florida has 218 per million people, while California has 244. 
DeSantis has taken heat for what many consider to be his lax approach to the pandemic. Last week, the Republican governor lashed out at the news media when he suggested a bias in coverage of the pandemic, even as concerns swirl over more contagious strains of COVID-19 potentially spreading at Super Bowl gatherings. 
When a journalist asked DeSantis about the spread of a more contagious variant of the virus in the context of super-spreader events following the 
Super Bowl
, the governor took it as an unjustified hit against the home team.

      FILE: California Gov. Gavin Newsom outlines his 2021-2022 state budget proposal during a news conference in Sacramento, Calif. 
      
(AP)
The public health consequences of the celebratory public gatherings won&#39;t be known for weeks, said Dr. Jay Wolfson, a professor of public health and the associate dean of the college of medicine at the University of South Florida.
While hospitalizations from the virus have been on a downward trend for nearly a month — dipping from highs above 7,600 to below 5,000, according to the state&#39;s census Wednesday — concerns remain about any additional casualties.
JANICE DEAN SLAMS &#39;BULLY&#39; CUOMO OVER NURSING HOME DATA DELAY: NY GOV &#39;CANNOT BE EMPATHETIC AT ALL&#39;
There are now 343 known cases of the UK variant in the Sunshine State — more than twice than what has been detected in California. State health officials have said the high number is also an indication of the state&#39;s more robust testing program for the new variants.
In California, Newsom is facing the prospect of a recall election, brought on by outrage over the economic and social impact of his response to the pandemic. Over the weekend, organizers of the recall campaign said they had collected more than 1.5 million signatures needed to qualify for a ballot. Committees behind the recall hope to gather well beyond the required 1.5 million to ensure it qualifies ahead of the March 17 deadline. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Polls show Newsom&#39;s popularity has been sliding as residents recoil from long-running coronavirus rules that have shuttered schools and businesses. The governor also has weathered a public backlash for dining out with friends and lobbyists at a 
San Francisco Bay Area restaurant
 last fall, while telling residents to stay home. And more recently, an ever-expanding fraud scandal at the state unemployment agency has his leadership during the pandemic under even closer scrutiny.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
