
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
&lt;br&gt;
Border Patrol
 agents in California on Tuesday rescued a 5-year-old and 6-year-old who had been abandoned at the border, apparently by smugglers -- the latest in a spate of such incidents amid a 
migrant surge
 at the border.
Border Patrol said in a statement that agents found the children alone and crying after they were abandoned by a couple who hoisted them over boulders near the end of the border wall. The children had their mother’s name and phone number on a note and their forearms -- which agents used to contact to get additional information.
HHS OPENS NEW SITE FOR MIGRANT CHILDREN NEAR PACKED DONNA FACILITY 

      US Border Patrol comforts two children found abandoned at the border (USBP)
      
&#34;It is unconscionable that anyone would abandon these small children and those responsible for smuggling events like this will be aggressively prosecuted,&#34; Chief Patrol Agent Aaron Heitke said. &#34;Thankfully, our agents were able to quickly rescue these siblings.&#34;
It is the latest in a number of child abandonments at the border. 
Video captured by a Border Patrol
 officer that circulated on social media showed a young boy, tears streaming down his face, who had apparently been abandoned alone in the desert in Texas.
&#34;I came with a group, they dumped me and I don&#39;t know where they are,&#34; the minor said between sobs to a motorist who was in the area.
BORDER PATROL CAPTURES HEARTBREAKING VIDEO OF ABANDONED BOY
He had spent the night in the desert, full of rattlesnakes and wild animals, according to Univision.  
Another video, 
released last week
 by El Paso Sector Chief Patrol Agent Gloria Chavez, shows what she said was two smugglers scaling the fence and dropping two children, 5 and 3, onto the ground and harsh surface, before tossing what appears to be some belongings down.
The Biden administration has been combating a surge in migrant apprehensions at the border, including a spike in unaccompanied children -- who are currently not being returned by Title 42 public health protections.
BORDER PATROL VIDEO SHOWS SMUGGLERS ABANDONING 5-YEAR-OLD, 3-YEAR-OLD AT THE BORDER
There are more than 4,000 children in Customs and Border Protection (CBP) custody and more than 15,000 in Health and Human Services (HHS) care.
The Biden administration announced Tuesday that it is opening a new temporary site to house unaccompanied migrant children, near the 
migrant facility in Donna, Texas
 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
HHS announced Tuesday that it was receiving an intake of 375 children in the Delphia Emergency Intake Site in Donna. The agency said the site will house up to 1,500 teenagers. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
