
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
&#39;The Big Saturday Show&#39; investigates what is behind Democrats&#39; push to pack the Supreme Court
The latest official photo of the 
Supreme Court
&#39;s current nine justices has been released, showing all three of former President Donald Trump&#39;s 
picks
 for the first time.
More than five months after Justice 
Amy Coney Barrett
 was confirmed to replace 
Ruth Bader Ginsburg
, the court released its official portrait showing the nine justices.
Seated in the front are Samuel Alito, 
Clarence Thomas
, John Roberts, Stephen Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor. Standing behind them are 
Brett Kavanaugh
, Elena Kagan, Neil Gorsuch and Amy Coney Barrett.
DEMOCRATS KICK OFF PUSH TO PACK SUPREME COURT WITH FOUR NEW JUSTICES
Alita and Roberts were nominated by President 
George W. Bush
 and Thomas by President 
George H.W. Bush
. Breyer was chosen by President 
Bill Clinton
 and Sotomayor and Kagan by President 
Barack Obama
. Kavanaugh, Gorsuch and Barrett were Trump&#39;s three choices for the court.
The picture comes amid calls from the left to increase the number of justices. They claim that Trump should not have nominated a third justice to the court given that Ginsburg died just weeks before the 2020 presidential election. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Democrats also say Republicans stole a seat in 2016 by not confirming Merrick Garland, Obama&#39;s pick to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia. Garland now serves as President Joe Biden&#39;s attorney general. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
