
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
South Carolina
 
senators
 Tuesday added a 
firing squad
 to the electric chair as alternatives if the 
state
 can’t execute condemned inmates by way of lethal injection.
The Senate then approved the 
bill
 on a key 32-11 vote with several 
Democrats
 joining 
Republicans
 in the proposal which would allow South Carolina to restart executions after nearly 10 years.
TRUMP ENDORSES SOUTH CAROLINA&#39;S TIM SCOTT
The state 
can’t put anyone to death now
 because its supply of lethal injection 
drugs
 expired and it has not been able to buy any more. Currently, 
inmates
 can choose between the electric chair and lethal injection and since the drugs are not available, they pick the method that can’t be done.
The Senate bill
 keeps lethal injection if the state has the drugs, but requires prison officials to use the electric chair if it does not. An inmate could choose a firing squad if they prefer.
The 
House
 is considering 
a similar bill 
without the firing squad option, but it could also consider the Senate version after a 
procedural vote
 by senators finalizes the bill later this week.
South Carolina still uses the electric chair first powered up in 1912 after taking over the death penalty from counties, which usually used hanging.
It is just one of nine states that maintains an electric chair. It would become just the fourth state to allow a firing squad with 
Utah
, 
Oklahoma
 and 
Mississippi
, according to the Death Penalty Information Center.
South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster asked for lawmakers to give him any way to restart executions since a few inmates have exhausted their appeals but their death sentences can’t be carried out.
A Republican and a Democrat, both former 
prosecutors
, proposed adding the firing squad.
The Democratic former prosecutor said it is evident in a Republican dominated state like South Carolina where the GOP gained extra seats in November that the death penalty can’t be abolished 
like Virginia did
 last month.
ALABAMA EXECUTION CANCELED AFTER INMATE&#39;S FIGHT FOR PASTOR IN CHAMBER
&#34;The death penalty is going to stay the law here for a while. If it is going to remain, it ought to be humane,&#34; said state Sen. Dick Harpootlian, who said hanging is brutal and often leads to decapitation and in electrocution, the condemned &#34;are burned to death.&#34;
Since the last execution was carried out in 
May 2011
, South Carolina’s death row has dropped from about 60 inmates 
to 37 
as of now because of natural deaths and prisoners winning appeals and being resentenced to life without parole. Prosecutors have sent just three new inmates to death row in the past decade.
The Republican former prosecutor, Sen. Greg Hembree, said Tuesday was not the time to debate whether the death penalty was right or wrong.
But several Democrats said the moral aspect of putting someone to death could not be removed from discussions over the method.
They also asked senators how they could justify having a debate over putting people to death this week when last month they passed a bill 
outlawing most abortions
 in South Carolina, which is now tied up in court.
Democratic Sen. Kevin Johnson brought up 
George Stinney
, the youngest person executed in the U.S. in the 20th century. He was 14 when he was sent to South Carolina’s electric chair after a one-day trial in 1944 for killing two White girls. A judge threw out the 
Black teen’s conviction
 in 2014 . Newspaper stories reported that witnesses said the straps to keep him in the electric chair didn’t fit around his small frame.
Johnson drives by a memorial to Stinney each time he comes to Columbia from Manning.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;You think it was bad to 
abort a baby
? Think how much worse it is to kill a person who when all is said and done is innocent,&#34; Johnson said.
Only one senator in the chamber has seen an execution. Hembree, the co-sponsor of the firing squad proposal, tried nearly a dozen death penalty cases as a prosecutor and watched one of the men he condemned to death die by lethal injection.
&#34;There’s nothing pleasant about any of those forms. They are gruesome, they are sad and tragic in a way,&#34; Hembree said. &#34;Justice is not always a happy place. But it is justice.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
