
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Albert Bourla, chairman and CEO of Pfizer, said on &#39;America&#39;s Newsroom&#39; that current demand for his coronavirus vaccine is &#39;significantly&#39; higher than the supply and that the company is &#39;working to resolve&#39; the issue.
The same day 
Texas 
Gov. 
Greg Abbott
 reissued his ban on 
vaccine
 mandates and passports a judge ruled against his ban on mask mandates, issuing a temporary injunction, according to reports. 
District Court Judge Tonya Parker said in her ruling the mask ban violates Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins’ authority to prioritize public health during the 
coronavirus
 pandemic, FOX 4 in Dallas reported. (In Texas, county judges are equivalent to county executives.)
Abbott’s executive order bans a requirement for the shot even if it is fully approved by the Food and Drug Administration, as the  
Pfizer
 vaccine was this week, according to the Texas Tribune.
The governor’s previous order banned vaccine mandates only for those products under emergency approval. 
Parker’s injunction will likely be appealed to the court of appeals and the Texas Supreme Court. 
DESANTIS, ABBOTT SCHOOL MASK RULES IN LINE WITH MANY FOREIGN COUNTRIES
&#34;It’s a victory for humans who live in Dallas County against the virus,&#34; Jenkins said of the ruling, according to the 
Dallas Morning News
. &#34;I hope we’ll all take off our red hat and our blue hat and put on our human hat and listen to doctors.&#34;

      Texas Gov. Greg Abbott speaks in Austin, June 8, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
Abbott spokeswoman Renae Eze said in a statement, &#34;Governor Abbott’s resolve to protect the rights and freedoms of all Texans has not wavered. The Office of the Attorney General has successfully defended the Governor’s executive orders in the past, and we are confident they will do so again.&#34;
Jenkins recently issued an emergency order that required people to wear masks inside Dallas County buildings, public schools and businesses, according to 
FOX 4
. 
The governor also reportedly plans to add the vaccine mandate issue to the Texas legislature’s current packed special session. 
&#34;Vaccine requirements and exemptions have historically been determined by the legislature, and their involvement is particularly important to avoid a patchwork of vaccine mandates across Texas,&#34; Abbott said in a statement, the 
Tribune 
reported. 
His order says &#34;no governmental entity&#34; can require the vaccine but keeps exceptions for places like nursing homes. 
Abbott himself is vaccinated and has encouraged Texans to get their shots. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The legislature is in its second special session with 17 items already on the agenda. A quorum was finally restored in the House after dozens of Democrats staged a multi-week walkout in an effort to prevent the passage of a controversial voting rights bill. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
