
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Border Patrol Deputy Chief Raul Ortiz tells ‘America’s Newsroom’ that several border facilities are over capacity and resources are stretched thin.
The Biden administration is opening a new temporary site to house unaccompanied migrant children, near the 
migrant facility in Donna, Texas
 -- where pictures emerged of migrants packed together in tight quarters, fueling criticism of the Biden administration’s handling of the border crisis
The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced Tuesday that it was receiving an intake of 375 children in the Delphia Emergency Intake Site in Donna. The agency said the site will house up to 1,500 teenagers. 
INSIDE THE BORDER CRISIS: PRESS TOURS PACKED TEXAS FACILITY WITH 4,000+ MIGRANTS 
The latest site is next to the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) facility in Donna, Texas where child migrants are processed, before being sent to HHS facilities elsewhere. 
Axios
, which first reported the development, reported it will allow CBP to release child migrants to HHS quicker.
In a statement, the agency said that while it is working to build capacity, &#34;additional capacity is urgently needed to manage the increasing numbers&#34; of migrant children. It said the site is intended as a temporary measure.
In the last two months, HHS has opened multiple sites in areas like Carrizo Springs, Texas, and the San Diego Convention Center. Meanwhile, it has 
requested Pentagon approval
 for the use of three military bases in California and Texas.
It comes as the administration scrambles to deal with a dramatic spike in migrants, including unaccompanied children. There are more than 4,000 children in CBP custody and more than 15,000 in HHS care.
PENTAGON OKS THIRD MILITARY BASE TO HOUSE MIGRANT CHILDREN AMID SURGE
The Biden administration has downplayed the crisis as a &#34;challenge,&#34; and blamed the Trump administration for dismantling legal pathways, while 
Republicans have blamed
 Biden&#39;s relaxing of Trump-era border protections for fueling the surge, and leaving officials on the ground overwhelmed.
That pressure on the administration was 
increased as pictures and videos
 emerged from the Donna facility of the then-more than 4,000 migrants in custody packed in &#34;pods.&#34; Each pod contained 500-600 migrants. Guidelines say there should only be 32 migrants in each pod.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
While single adults, and some migrant family units can be expelled via Title 42 health protections implemented during the Trump administration, the Biden administration has not sought to extend that policy to unaccompanied children.
Last week, 
Fox News confirmed
 that CBP is projecting that as many as 184,000 
unaccompanied children
 could reach the border in the fiscal year 2021.
One official told Fox News: &#34;We’ve never seen anything like this before.&#34;
Fox News’ Griff Jenkins contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
