
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributor Joe Concha says journalism has become a &#39;performance art&#39; on &#39;Fox &amp;amp; Friends&#39;
Nearly a year since 
COVID-19
 first touched the United States, 
California
, and 
Florida
 – both of which have responded to the pandemic in their own ways – are yielding vastly different results. 
Florida, which has been more open and less restricted than its west coast counterpart, has recorded just above 1.5 million cases. Yet California, despite being among the strictest in the nation when it comes to COVID lockdowns, has recorded nearly twice that figure since the start of the pandemic.

      FILE: A healthcare worker tends to a COVID-19 patient in the intensive care unit at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center during the coronavirus pandemic in San Jose, Calif. 
      
(AP)
Though Florida has a smaller population than California, both states have roughly the same number of cases per 100,000 residents. 
California Gov. Gavin Newsom
 has faced harsh criticism for his strict handling of the coronavirus. Over the course of 2020, he has ordered bars, indoor dining, and other business shut down in counties passing a certain threshold of COVID-19 cases. 
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, however, has taken a different approach. Though he did take similar measures to Newsom early on in the pandemic, he allowed bars and restaurants to open by June. A few months later, he lifted more statewide restrictions on the economy and prohibited law enforcement from fining people who don’t wear masks. 
In October, DeSantis said statewide school closures because of the coronavirus are not a viable option and &#34;
should be off the table
.&#34; 
UK CORONAVIRUS VARIANT SEEN IN LOUISIANA FOR FIRST TIME: OFFICIALS
Meanwhile, most of California’s 6 million public school students have been learning remotely since the pandemic began in March. The Democratic governor late last month announced a $2 billion plan to push the state’s schools to begin allowing their youngest students to 
return to the classroom
 in February. 
Deaths in Florida though – at 110 per 100,000 residents – have surpassed those in California, at 81 per 100,000, according to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
. The higher numbers, however, may reflect Florida’s older population.  
Yet CDC data indicates that California&#39;s death rate is gaining ground on Florida, with seven-day average daily deaths at 1.4 per 100,000 residents, compared to Florida&#39;s 0.8 per 100,000. And as of Saturday, positive tests in California are also higher at 105 new cases per 100,000 to Florida&#39;s 64 per 100,000. 
California reached a grim milestone this week, with nearly 3 million coronavirus cases. The death from COVID-19 in 
Los Angeles County
 – an epicenter of the U.S. pandemic – works out to about one person every six minutes. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
California’s hospitalization rates have also surpassed Florida, at 56 per 100,000 residents, compared with Florida at around 36 per 100,000 residents. 
Fox News reached out to Newsom&#39;s team for comment on the drastic differences.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
