
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Oklahoma GOP House Speaker T.W. Shannon and former Clinton adviser Richard Goodstein weigh in.
Author and former 
New York Times
 reporter Alex Berenson is among the featured speakers to give a talk at this year’s Conservative Political Action Conference (
CPAC
) in 
Orlando, Fla
. 
Berenson, 48, made national headlines last year for his criticism of the strict lockdown policies that came in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic
. More recently, he has focused his criticism on Big Tech’s censorship and cancel culture – which he has compared to the blacklisting of &#34;Communist sympathizers in Hollywood in the 1950s.&#34;

      Former NYT reporter Alex Berenson. 
      
(FOX)
&#34;The left seems frantic to stop any debate – about how to handle COVID, 
global warming
, whether ‘trans’ women should be allowed to 
compete in women’s sports
,&#34; Berenson wrote in an op-ed earlier this month. &#34;Worse, it is no longer content to try to shout down views it does not like. It wants to punish the people who hold them.&#34; 
BARI WEISS: WOKE CULTURE IS DOMINATING OUT LIVES -- HERE ARE 10 WAYS TO FIGHT BACK
Berenson worked at The Times from 1999 until 2010, becoming a full-time novelist. He also published nonfiction, including a controversial 
2019 book
 that argued against the legalization of 
marijuana
. 
Berenson said his 
critique of lockdowns and cancel culture
 has begun to negatively impact his work as a writer. He noted that 12 of his previous novels were best-sellers and received attention from mainstream news outlets. But he has &#34;not received a single review aside from a couple of trade publications&#34; for his upcoming novel, &#34;The Power Couple.&#34; 
At CPAC, Berenson is expected to speak on what happens when you 
don’t toe the party line
 and how anyone can be a target of cancel culture – not just conservatives. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
CPAC kicked off Friday at the Hyatt Regency in Orlando. It will feature a roster of familiar conservative heavyweights, culminating in former 
President Donald Trump
, who has flirted with the possibility of running again to retake the 
White House
 in 2024. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
