
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Thomas Hodgson discusses Biden border policies and the letter him and other sheriffs signed and sent to the administration. 
WASHINGTON — Two 
House Republicans
 are demanding that the
 Environmental Protection Agency
 provide records related to a decision by the agency’s new leader to remove dozens of scientists and other experts from two key advisory boards.
EPA Administrator Michael Regan
 has said the advisers appointed under the 
Trump administration
 were overly friendly to business and that his March 31 &#34;reset&#34; of the Science Advisory Board and Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee would return EPA to its practice of relying on advice from a balanced group of experts.
Regan’s overhaul removed more than 45 members of the two science advisory boards, including some whose terms do not expire this year. The panels provide scientific expertise and recommendations for air quality standards and other policies intended to protect public health and the environment.
COLLINS-LED GROUP OF GOPers BLAST BIDEN AFTER PRESIDENT SAYS THEY &#39;DIDN&#39;T MOVE AN INCH&#39; ON COVID COMPROMISE
But 
GOP Reps
. James Comer of Kentucky and Ralph Norman of South Carolina criticized Regan for what they called an unwarranted &#34;purge&#34; based more on politics than science. Comer is the senior Republican on the House Oversight Committee, while Norman is the top Republican on the panel’s environment subcommittee.
&#34;Traditionally science advisory boards are bipartisan panels used to provide advice to the administrator. Unfortunately, it appears the Biden administration is continuing to purge officials in the government who do not share its political beliefs,″ Comer and Norman wrote Wednesday in a 
letter 
to Regan.
&#34;The midterm firing of science advisory board members within the first months of a new administration .... raises serious concerns about the politicization of the EPA,&#34; they added.
Regan 
told The Associated Press in an interview late last month
 that while he was clearing out the two important panels, ousted members can apply for reinstatement.
&#34;Scientific integrity is a foundational value for EPA,″ Regan said. &#34;And I am committing to ensuring that every single decision we make meets rigorous scientific standards.&#34;

      Michael Regan, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), speaks during a Senate Environment and Public Works confirmation hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, Feb. 3, 2021. If confirmed, Regan will be expected to draw up new regulations and reverse Trump administration steps quickly to support Biden&#39;s aggressive plans to cut carbon emissions. Photographer: Caroline Brehman/CQ Roll Call/Bloomberg via Getty Images
      
(Getty Images)
BIDEN TASK FORCE TO REVIEW TIMES TRUMP ADMINISTRATION &#39;ESCHEWED&#39; SCIENCE IN FAVOR OF POLITICS
Democrats have said a 
2017 decision
 by 
Donald Trump’s
 first EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, to remove many academic scientists from the advisory panels tilted them in favor of the chemical and fossil fuel industries. Pruitt barred scientists from serving on the advisory boards if they had received EPA research grants. Pruitt later 
resigned 
amid ethics scandals but his policies were largely continued under his successor and former deputy, Andrew Wheeler.
John Graham, the former chairman of the 
Science
 Advisory Board, said last week that Regan’s &#34;radical action″ disrupted his service and that of every board member. The Indiana University professor said he will not reapply &#34;because I respectfully protest the entire process that Administrator Regan has concocted.″
Regan, 44, was sworn in March 11 as the first Black man to run the EPA. He served as 
North Carolina’s
 top environmental regulator for four years before that and also worked at the EPA during the 
Clinton
 and 
Bush
 administrations.
He told the AP that the reset of the two advisory boards — and the removal of all members of both boards — &#34;are indicative of how serious we are about repairing the scientific integrity at EPA.″
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The EPA also will be part of a 
White House
 effort to investigate Trump-era political interference in science across the executive branch, Regan said.
In their letter, Comer and Norman asked the EPA to provide by April 21 all documents and communications — including any with the White House — from Jan. 20 on related to the ouster of the advisory board members.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
