
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News correspondent Bill Melugin has the latest on the border crisis on &#39;Special Report&#39;
An emergency shelter set up in the border city of 
McAllen, Texas for 
COVID-positive migrants has expanded its capacity to keep up with a torrent of cases.
More than 850 infected migrants have entered the facility after having been released into the city, officials said.
The city announced Wednesday that it was setting up 
temporary emergency shelters
 in response to a &#34;rapidly escalating&#34; surge of migrants flooding across the border — warning that the influx has become a &#34;crisis.&#34;
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION BEGINS FLYING MIGRANTS EXPELLED VIA TITLE 42 INTO MEXICO AMID COVID FEARS
&#34;Despite the City of McAllen and its community partners’ best efforts, the sheer number of immigrants being released into the city has become a crisis: a crisis the City of McAllen did not create and has proactively tried to avoid for seven years,&#34; the city said in a statement.
The city said
 more than 7,500 COVID-positive migrants had been released into McAllen by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) since February and more than 1,500 in the last week. Migrants who test positive are asked to quarantine with a local charity, but the centers are being overwhelmed.
The border town’s city commission subsequently approved temporary emergency shelter for the &#34;overwhelming number of immigrants stranded in McAllen by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.&#34;
As of Friday there were several hundred migrants staying at the compound, which had an initial capacity of 250. Officials said they were prepared to handle 650, but Mayor Javier Villalobos said later Friday on Fox Business that there around 850 people at the shelter.
OVER 800 UNACCOMPANIED MIGRANT KIDS APPREHENDED AT THE BORDER IN A SINGLE DAY AS NUMBERS SURGE
Vallalobos warned that migrants who are released don’t stay in McAllen, but move throughout the United States.
&#34;The issue of whether they have COVID or not, ... they&#39;re going throughout the country and we need to do something. We need to stop it somehow; we need to stop the flow,&#34; he said on 
&#34;Fox Business Tonight.&#34;
 &#34;But we can’t stop it.&#34;
The situation at McAllen is the latest indicator of the continued crisis at the southern border facing the Biden administration and other border towns and states.
IMAGES OF MIGRANT CENTER IN DONNA, TEXAS SHOW CRAMPED CONDITIONS AS BORDER NUMBERS SURGE
More than 188,000 migrants were encountered in June and that number is expected to rise to more than 210,000 in July. June also saw a 25% increase in migrant family encounters and an 8% increase in unaccompanied children.
On Thursday, Health and Human Services announced that there were more than 830 apprehensions of unaccompanied children in a single day, significantly higher than the 30-day average.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Biden administration has acknowledged the risk of COVID-19 spread coming from the surge in migrants and has kept Title 42 public health protections in place, renewing them earlier this month. On Friday, the Department of Homeland Security 
confirmed that it was flying
 those expelled via Title 42 into the Mexican interior, citing the Delta variant.
&#34;As part of the United States’ mitigation efforts in response to the rise in COVID-19 cases due to the delta variant, the Department of Homeland Security has begun to transport individuals expelled under Title 42 by plane to the Mexican interior,&#34; a DHS spokesperson told Fox News.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
