
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., slams Democrats over calls to expand the Supreme Court and abolish the filibuster.
The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC) and congressional 
Democrats
 hinting at a run for a seat in the 
upper chamber
 are silent on whether they agree with their party’s House campaign arm calling for the end of the filibuster.
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) chair Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney, D-N.Y., 
published
 
an opinion piece calling on the Senate to remove the filibuster — the chamber rule that gives the minority party in Congress more of a voice in the legislative process.
&#34;Democrats must eliminate the filibuster, a shameful anti-democratic relic of Jim Crow, so that we can secure the right to vote and fulfill our promises to the American people,&#34; Maloney wrote.
Fox News reached out to the DSCC as well as Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio, who recently announced his candidacy for Senate, and the other Democrats reportedly eyeing a run for the upper chamber asking if they agreed with the op-ed.
OHIO DEMOCRAT TIM RYAN ANNOUNCES SENATE RUN FOR PORTMAN SEAT
None of them — the DSCC; Ryan; as well as Reps. Conor Lamb, Chrissy Houlahan and Madeleine Dean of Pennsylvania, Stephanie Murphy of Florida, Cindy Axne of Iowa and Ron Kind of Wisconsin – responded to Fox News’ request for comment.
‘Removing the filibuster has come under fire from both sides, with moderate Democrats like Senators Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Arizona&#39;s Kirsten Synema, backing the procedural measure which was first utilized in 1837 
according to the Senate Republican Policy Committee.
The filibuster is a legislative practice unique to the Senate where a bill can be killed on the floor via a senator holding the floor by standing and speaking until the time for a measure to be voted on expires.
Democrats have attempted to 
label 
the filibuster as &#34;racist&#34; in their controversial plan to change how the Senate functions. Even President Biden, himself a former senator from Delaware, 
called 
the filibuster a &#34;relic of the Jim Crow era.&#34;
BIDEN NOW CALLS FILIBUSTER ‘A RELIC OF THE JIM CROW ERA’ BUT KAMALA HARRIS IS AMONG DEMS WHO HAVE EMBRACED IT
&#34;We demand an urgent end to the racial, racist Senate procedural — this procedural tool,&#34; Rep. Cory Bush, D-Mo., said. &#34;This tool that blocks us from what we need, what we have to have to survive and to thrive. Blocking us from getting on with the business of protecting the communities that we were elected to serve.&#34;
The 
recent spike
 in filibustering, however, came from the Democrats themselves last year. The Democrats also set the record for the lowest filibuster rate during the 115th Congress in 2017.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden’s shift on the filibuster came as he rose to the presidency. In 2005, while he was still a senator, Biden defended the filibuster saying it was not about preventing nominees or legislation from going forward.
&#34;At its core, the filibuster is not about stopping a nominee or a bill — it’s about compromise and moderation,&#34; he said.
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
