
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Texas
 Gov. Greg Abbott tested negative for the 
coronavirus
 Saturday, just four days after testing positive. 
&#34;I am told that my infection was brief and mild because of the vaccination I received,&#34; Abbott said in
 a video he posted
 on Twitter. &#34;So, I encourage others who have not yet received the vaccination to consider getting one.&#34;
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DISRENROLLS OVER 200 STUDENTS FOR FAILING TO COMPLY WITH VACCINE MANDATE
The Texas governor said he will continue to quarantine per doctor recommendations, and that first lady, Cecilia Abbott, had also tested negative for the deadly virus.
The governor’s positive test came as coronavirus cases have surged not only across Texas but nationwide – spurred along by the highly contagious delta variant.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported a 14 percent increase in the number of cases reported across the U.S. over the last week, with an average of more than 133,000 new cases confirmed daily.
MAINSTREAM MEDIA LECTURES GOV. ABBOTT ON CONTRACTING COVID-19 DESPITE BEING VACCINATED
Texas recently opened nine new antibody infusion centers in an attempt to keep hospitals clear for the most serious coronavirus cases, the 
Texas Tribune
 first reported. 
Abbott reportedly said he would work to continue adding antibody therapy centers to help the state cope with the rise in cases not seen since the previous pandemic peak.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
Upon testing positive for the coronavirus, Abbott was given Regeneron&#39;s monoclonal antibody 
treatment
 – a therapy used for &#34;mild to moderate&#34; coronavirus cases for people who &#34;are at high risk for progressing to severe COVID-19.&#34;
The governor reported he was not experiencing any symptoms after his initial positive test, though he did not say whether that changed over the last four days.  
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
