
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Texas Gov. Dan Patrick reacts to the state&#39;s energy crisis after it was ravaged by a winter storm.
President Biden
 spoke to 
Texas 
Gov. 
Greg Abbott
 on Thursday about the ongoing 
winter storm crisis
 that left millions without power for days.
Abbott in an earlier news conference said he would ask Biden to declare a major disaster declaration to help residents whose homes have been damaged by the Arctic storm that has left dozens dead in the state, according to KSAT-TV in San Antonio. 
The governor called on state lawmakers to mandate the winterization of power generators and for the modernization of the grid, 
KSAT 
reported. 
&#34;All of us agree on the necessity of action,&#34; Abbott told reporters. &#34;Not just the action taken to restore your power but an action to ensure that you never have to endure anything like this ever again.&#34;
TEXAS NOW GRAPPLES WITH WATER CRISIS AS POWER RETURNS TO NEARLY 2 MILLION HOMES
On Sunday, the president approved a federal emergency declaration in Texas, moving resources and supplies to Texas as the storm hammered the state. 
A power grid failure this week forced the state’s operator, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, to enact day’s-long blackouts in the state and nearly 13 million Texans have also been advised to boil their drinking water.
During the phone call, the president reiterated that the federal government will continue to work with authorities in Texas &#34;to bring relief and address the critical needs of the families affected,&#34; a White House readout of the call said.
Biden &#34;also shared his intentions to instruct additional federal agencies to look into any immediate steps that could be taken to support Texans at this time,&#34; the White House said, adding the administration is ready to give further assistance to Texas and other states affected by the winter storm.
Biden wrote in a tweet after the call that he told Abbott he would &#34;work relentlessly&#34; to get Texans any assistance they need. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In an earlier tweet Thursday he wrote, &#34;Jill and I are keeping Texas, Oklahoma, and other impacted states in our prayers. I’ve declared states of emergency, authorized FEMA to provide generators and supplies, and am ready to fulfill additional requests. Please heed the instructions of local officials and stay safe.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
