
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former education secretary Margaret Spellings on the impact the lack of in-person learning is having on children in the U.S. 
While teachers&#39; unions push for remote 
schooling
 amid the coronavirus pandemic, the lack of in-person learning is having an impact on students, former Education Secretary Margaret Spellings said on Thursday.
&#34;Americans know, we all know there is no recovery without our students back in school. Parents must have those options. Not only is it the right thing for a recovery but gosh, our kids are suffering every day. Their mental health, their learning and these unions are overplaying their hand at this moment. We have to put students ahead of adults,&#34; Spellings told &#34;
America&#39;s Newsroom
.&#34;
CHICAGO PARENTS TOLD NOT TO BRING KIDS TO SCHOOL AS IMPASSE BETWEEN TEACHER&#39;S UNION, DISTRICT CONTINUES
Meanwhile, the parents of 
Chicago
 public 
school
 students were told not to send their children to school Thursday as the 
stalemate
 between the school district and teachers union continues over reopening conditions. 
Teachers in the nation&#39;s third-largest school district decided not to report to schools this week over concerns about the spread of 
COVID-19
. Chicago Public Schools had ordered kindergarten through eighth-grade teachers and staff to come back to school Monday in order to prepare for the return of around 70,000 students on Feb. 1, the day it planned to resume in-person classroom instruction. 
Following the impasse between the Chicago Teacher&#39;s Union and the school district, the district pushed for a return start date on Wednesday. However, in a tweet, the district said remote learning would continue Thursday. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Spellings added that &#34;there is also a silent epidemic going on for folks not seeking help and for teachers unable to identify — violent situations or other things. We must get students back in school.
Fox News&#39; 
Louis Casiano
 contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
