
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking today in entertainment.
Crews started dismantling the remaining fence surrounding the 
U.S. Capitol
 on Saturday morning as U.S. Capitol Police (USCP) officers and members of the public watched.
After the Jan. 6 
riot
, officials installed two layers of fencing blocking off the Capitol. Although the large perimeter fencing was removed in March, the inner layer of fencing closer to the Capitol itself remained, blocking the public from entering the grounds. 

      Crews began taking down the inner Capitol fence on Saturday morning. (Kelly Laco/Fox News)
      
On Saturday, crews arrived and began taking down the inner layer between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. ET. The fence is being dismantled beginning on the Senate side of the Capitol working around to the House side. 
FENCE SURROUNDING US CAPITOL IS EXPECTED TO COME DOWN STARTING ON JULY 8

      The Capitol fence directly in front of the U.S. Supreme Court is taken down. (Kelly Laco/Fox News)
      
Capitol police told Fox News that there will not be another fence installed closer to the actual Capitol building and that all members of the public are welcome to enter the premises and walk around. The public had been barred from entering Capitol grounds for more than six months following Jan. 6. 

      Members of the public began to walk around Capitol grounds, after being barred for months after the Jan. 6 riot. (Kelly Laco/Fox News)
      
Cheers could be heard from members of the public riding by the Capitol on bikes as the fence started to come down. 

      The main fence between the U.S. Supreme Court and the Library of Congress begins to come down. (Kelly Laco/Fox News)
      

      Crews are stacking the perimeter fence in piles and moving the concrete barriers that reinforced the fence. (Kelly Laco/Fox News)
      
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
This week, the 
House
 passed 
legislation
 to create a select committee focused solely on investigating the 
riot
, a move that was panned by Republicans as too partisan but hailed by Democrats as necessary to give the American people a full accounting of what happened during the deadly attack. 
Fox News is told that there are still questions that remain around whether the USCP has the resources to protect the Capitol. 
Fox News&#39; Chad Pergram and Morgan Phillips contributed to this report.
Kelly Laco is a news and politics editor for Fox News.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
