
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Civil rights activist weighs in on &#39;Fox Report Weekend&#39;
The Rev. Jesse Jackson was among more than 200 people arrested in 
Washington, D.C.,
 by Capitol Police on Monday while protesting in favor of 
Democratic
 legislation. 
This is the latest arrest of several this year for Jackson, who joined on Monday other protesters from the Poor People’s Campaign March outside Union Station in D.C. in support of the Democrats&#39; sweeping election reform bill.
Also in the protest were Lucy and Linda Johnson, the daughters of President Lyndon B. Johnson.
JESSE JACKSON, WILLIAM BARBER ARRESTED DURING FILIBUSTER PROTEST OUTSIDE CAPITOL
Last week, Jackson was one of 39 people arrested for refusing to leave 
Arizona
 Sen. Kyrsten Sinema&#39;s office in Phoenix, where they were protesting the 
senator&#39;s
 support of the filibuster.
The reverend and civil rights activist claimed the nation is in a &#34;civilization crisis&#34; with drawn &#34;battle lines&#34; while calling on other activists to fight nonviolently for their rights, remarking the &#34;power’s in you, the people.&#34;
Protesters 
marched
 
to Sinema&#39;s office chanting to &#34;end&#34; the filibuster — the historic procedural measure that is used to kill bills by preventing a vote, which the Democrats used over 300 times in 2020 
alone
.
Additionally, the civil rights activist was arrested alongside Bishop William Barber II in June for a similar 
protest
 
outside the U.S. Capitol against the filibuster and GOP opposition to a minimum wage hike.
Sinema and her colleague Sen. 
Joe Manchin
, D-W.Va., have come under serious fire from progressives looking to nix the Senate tradition, but both have stood by the filibuster.
Congressional Democrats and progressive groups have taken aim at the filibuster as they push for the Democrats’ controversial voting legislation.
Manchin said during a Sunday interview that he could not imagine a filibuster &#34;carve-out&#34; for the sweeping election overhaul.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The filibuster, a longstanding Senate tradition requiring 60 votes in the 100-member chamber to advance a bill, effectively allows the minority party to block certain legislation. The Senate is currently evenly split 50/50 between the two parties, with the Democrats holding a razor-thin majority due to the tie-breaking vote of Vice President Kamala Harris through her constitutional role as president of the Senate.
But the Democrats are nowhere close to obtaining the 60 votes needed to quash a filibuster. They don’t even have the simple majority needed to eliminate the legislative filibuster rule.
Fox News’ Paul Steinhauser contributed reporting.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
