
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
McAllen Mayor Javier Villalobos discusses ongoing efforts by city leaders to control a surge of coronavirus cases among migrants
The 
Supreme Court
 is being asked to block a plan by 
Indiana
 
University
 to require students and employees to get 
vaccinated
 against 
COVID-19
. 
It’s the first time the high court has been asked to weigh in on a vaccine mandate and comes as some corporations, states and cities are also contemplating or have adopted vaccine requirements for workers or even to 
dine indoors
.
The case is not the first time a coronavirus-related issue has been before the Supreme Court. In 
rulings
 over the past year, the conservative-majority court has 
largely backed
 religious groups who have challenged restrictions on indoor services during the pandemic.
DR. JANETTE NESHEIWAT: COVID AND OUR KIDS – UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD WE CLOSE SCHOOLS THIS YEAR
In the current case, however, a three-judge federal appeals court panel, including two judges appointed by former President Donald Trump, was one of two lower courts to side with Indiana University and allow it to require vaccinations. The plan announced in May requires roughly 90,000 students and 40,000 employees on seven campuses to receive COVID-19 vaccinations for the fall semester.
Students who don’t comply will have their registration canceled and workers who don’t will lose their jobs. The policy does have religious and medical exemptions, but exempt students must be tested twice a week for the disease. The school announced this week that for now, everyone, regardless of vaccination status, must wear a mask indoors while on campus.
The vaccine mandate is being challenged by eight students who argue in 
court papers filed Friday 
that they have &#34;a constitutional right to bodily integrity, autonomy, and of medical treatment choice in the context of a vaccination mandate.&#34; They’re asking for an injunction from the high court barring the university from enforcing the mandate. Seven of the students qualify for a religious exemption.
WHERE TO FIND COVID VACCINES: HOW TO SEARCH FOR PROVIDERS AND FIND AVAILABILITY
There is no deadline for the court to act, but the students are asking it to do so by Aug. 13.
In July, an Indiana district court judge 
sided with the university
 in declining to issue a preliminary injunction blocking the vaccine mandate. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit voted 3-0 to 
uphold the decision
 earlier this week. Two of the three appellate judges were appointed by Trump and the third by former President Ronald Reagan.
The university initially was going to require students and employees to provide immunization documentation but after a backlash 
changed its policy
 to make providing proof optional. Students and employees now must simply attest to their vaccination in an online form.
LARRY ELDER TAKES GOP FUNDRAISING LEAD IN CALIFORNIA RECALL RACE
College officials across the country have struggled
 with whether to require vaccinations, with some schools mandating them and others questioning whether they have legal authority to do so. Similar lawsuits against student vaccine requirements have been filed in other states.
Over the past two weeks, vaccine mandates have become a particularly hot issue. On Friday, 
United Airlines announced
 it would become the first major U.S. airline to require vaccination for workers. 
Google
, Facebook, 
Tyson Foods and Microsoft
 are among the other companies mandating vaccines.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Late last month, the Department of Veterans Affairs 
became the first federal agency
 to require vaccinations for its health workers. President Biden has since 
announced 
that federal workers will be required to sign forms attesting they’ve been vaccinated against the coronavirus or else comply with new rules on mandatory masking, weekly testing, distancing and more.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
