
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Filmmaker Nick Loeb joins ‘Fox &amp; Friends’ to discuss the movie ‘Roe V. Wade’ on Fox Nation. 
Shelley Lynn Thornton, the woman identified as the baby at the center of the lawsuit that led to the 1973 
Roe v Wade Supreme Court decision
, which legalized abortion across the country, will give first television interview after her identity was revealed last month.
Thornton is the daughter of Norma McCorvey, who sued in 1970 under the name &#34;Jane Roe&#34; alleging that Texas’ abortion laws were unconstitutional. The case eventually was taken up by the Supreme Court -- which ruled in favor of McCorvey and decided that women had a constitutional right to an abortion. It has proved to be one of the most significant and controversial rulings in Supreme Court history.
FOX NEWS POLL: A RECORD 65 PERCENT FAVOR KEEPING ROE V WADE
However, by the time that ruling was handed down, Thornton had been born and given up for adoption by McCorvey.
While McCorvey’s identity was revealed a few years after the court case, Thornton’s was unknown until an 
Atlantic article
 revealed her identity last month.
&#34;My association with Roe,&#34; she said, according to the outlet, &#34;started and ended because I was conceived.&#34;
Thornton will give her first television interview on ABC News on Monday night.
The interview comes as abortion has again been before the Supreme Court. Texas abortion providers have 
requested
 that the high court fast-track an appeal against the state’s new laws on the procedure. The 
Department of Justice
  has also filed a lawsuit against the state.
DOJ SUES TEXAS OVER ABORTION LAW: ‘CLEARLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL’ 
The &#34;Texas Heartbeat Act,&#34; prohibits abortions after a fetal heartbeat is detected, which can be as early as six weeks into a pregnancy.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Heartbeat Act was 
signed into law
 on May 19 by Gov. Greg Abbott and does not criminalize abortion, but any individual other than government employees may bring a civil claim against an alleged violator. If that person wins, the law calls for the court to award them a minimum of $10,000 per abortion.
The Supreme Court ruled in September in a 5-4 decision that the law could remain in effect as legal challenges continue.
Fox News&#39; Jessica Chasmar contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
