
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
House Judiciary Committee member discusses his criticism of the January 6th commission on &#39;The Story&#39;
Law enforcement concerned by the prospect for violence at a rally in the nation&#39;s capital next week are planning to reinstall protective fencing that surrounded the U.S. Capitol for months after the 
Jan. 6 insurrection
 there, according to a person familiar with the discussions.
Though no specific measures have been announced, 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
 hinted during her weekly press conference Wednesday at extra safety precautions for the Sept. 18 rally by saying: &#34;We intend to have the integrity of the Capitol be intact.&#34; Briefings for lawmakers, including congressional leaders, are expected in the coming days.
A security plan that is being finalized calls for fencing to be put up outside the inner perimeter of the Capitol building and the 
Supreme Court
, though not around the congressional office buildings nearby, said the person, who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity ahead of an official announcement.
MICHAEL MOORE TRIES COMPARING TALIBAN TO CAPITOL RIOTERS IN TWEET
Police
 continue to track intelligence indicating far-right extremist groups like the 
Proud Boys
 and Oath Keepers are planning to attend the rally later this month at the U.S. Capitol that is designed to demand &#34;justice&#34; for the hundreds of people who have been charged in connection with January’s insurrection. Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio, however, has said he doesn&#39;t expect his membership to attend.
On Wednesday, the 
FBI
 released new information to the public in hopes of catching the person suspected of leaving behind two pipe bombs on Capitol Hill the night before the riot, one of the enduring, unsolved mysteries of that chaotic week. The devices did not explode.

      The U.S. Capitol is seen behind the razor fence around the U.S. Capitol, Thursday, Feb. 18, 2021. U.S. Capitol Police officials told congressional leaders the razor-wire topped fencing around the Capitol should remain in place for several more months as law enforcement continues to track threats against lawmakers, a person familiar with the matter told The Associated Press on Thursday. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
      
The planned presence of the extremist groups is concerning because, while members and associates of Oath Keepers and Proud Boys make up just a fraction of the nearly 600 people who have been charged so far in the riot, they are facing some of the most serious charges brought.
Some lawmakers and top union officials were expected to be briefed on the plan later this week and another more expansive briefing for the leaders of the House and Senate was planned for Monday.
CAPITOL POLICE OFFICERS SUE TRUMP, ALLIES OVER JAN. 6 RIOT
The fence had been a stark symbol of the fear many in the Capitol felt after the mob pushed its way past overwhelmed police officers, broke through windows and doors, and ransacked the Capitol as 
Congress
 was voting to certify 
Joe Biden
’s electoral win.
Those charges include allegations that they conspired to block the certification of Biden’s victory. Several Oath Keepers have pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges and are cooperating with investigators in the case against their fellow extremists, who authorities say came to Washington ready for violence and willing to do whatever it took to stop the certification of the Electoral College vote.
The planned Sept. 18 rally at the Capitol comes as a jittery Washington has seen a series of troubling one-off incidents — including, most recently, a man who parked a pickup truck near the Library of Congress and said he had a bomb and detonator.
And the most concerning: A series of unexploded pipe bombs placed around the U.S. Capitol ahead of the Jan. 6 insurrection remain unexplained and no suspect has been charged.
JAN. 6 COMMITTEE, AFTER PARTISAN BATTLE OVER APPOINTEES, HOLDS FIRST HEARING ON CAPITOL ATTACK
The FBI released a new video of that suspect on Wednesday and a digital map showing the person circling the offices of the Democratic and Republican national committees, where the bombs were placed. The FBI also said, for the first time, that agents believe the suspect is not from the 
Washington, D.C.
, area but may have been &#34;operating&#34; out of a location near the Capitol.
&#34;Based upon the suspect’s route of travel to the DNC and from the DNC to the RNC, and the manner in which the suspect carries the backpack after placing the pipe bomb at the DNC, the FBI believes the suspect had a location in the vicinity of Folger Park from which the person was operating,&#34; the FBI said in a news release. &#34;Reviews of the suspect’s behavior in video footage and interviews with residents in the Capitol Hill neighborhood have led the FBI to believe the suspect is not from the area.&#34;
On Capitol Hill, the politics around fencing in the iconic building and its grounds were extremely difficult for lawmakers after the Jan. 6 insurrection. Many said they disliked closing off access, even as they acknowledged the increased level of security it provided. The fencing finally came down with a promise to re-erect it if necessary. But the question of what deserves fencing is tricky.
In an interview Wednesday, the district’s Democratic representative, Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton, said she had not yet been briefed on the security plans, but understood if the fence needs to be reinstalled out of an abundance of caution ahead of the upcoming rally.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;I would hope that we wouldn’t have to fence in the Capitol every time there’s a demonstration,&#34; Norton said. But she added, &#34;If they go with the fence, I’m not going to criticize them.&#34;
Norton suggested that in the aftermath of Jan. 6 there would be more robust security preparations ahead of this rally out of an abundance of caution, even though it is scheduled for a Saturday before the House returns to session, a typically sleepy summertime afternoon when few lawmakers or staff would be at work.
&#34;I wouldn’t be surprised to see the fence go up,&#34; she said. &#34;The preparations are certainly going to be more than they were on Jan. 6.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
