
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
U.S. 
borders
 along Canada and Mexico will remain 
closed
 to all land and ferry crossings for at least another month, security officials announced Friday.
The Department of Homeland Security said the latest one-month extension was necessary to combat the coronavirus pandemic as the U.S. has continues to see an increase in cases reported nationwide.
BIDEN PREPARES PLAN REQUIRING FOREIGN TRAVELERS TO BE VACCINATED AMID BORDER CRISIS
&#34;In coordination with public health and medical experts, DHS continues working closely with its partners across the United States and internationally to determine how to safely and sustainably resume normal travel,&#34; the department said on 
Twitter
.
U.S. security officials first established the travel ban at the onset of the pandemic in March 2020. Border closures have repeatedly been extended as the virus continues to infect millions worldwide.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has reported a daily average of more than 133,000 new cases over the last week in the U.S.
The daily death toll has also once again risen to figures not seen since mid-March with over 1,000 COVID-related deaths reported Wednesday. 
The latest border closure extensions do not apply to U.S. citizens, who are permitted to travel internationally and re-enter the country. 
ASTRAZENECA ANTIBODY THERAPY PREVENTS COVID-19 IN TRIAL, COMPANY SAYS
While American’s are once again able to visit most countries in Europe, noncitizens traveling from European nations are largely barred from entry. 
Travelers from China, India, Iran and Brazil are also still 
prohibited
 from entering the U.S. 
The White House announced earlier this month that the administration was working on a strategy to allow foreign travelers into the U.S. so long as they were vaccinated.
&#34;The interagency working groups are working to develop a plan for a consistent and safe international travel policy, in order to have a new system ready for when we can reopen travel. This includes a phased approach that over time will mean, with limited exceptions, that foreign nationals traveling to the United States … need to be fully vaccinated,&#34; a 
White House
 official said in a statement. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
&#34;Currently, the interagency working groups are developing a policy and planning process to be prepared for when the time is right to transition to this new system.&#34;
It remains unclear when the vaccination requirement will be implemented. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
