
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News correspondent Garrett Tenney provides the latest details on the mandate that stipulates officers who don&#39;t comply could possibly being taken off the job as early as tomorrow
Chicago
 
Mayor Lori Lightfoot appears to have violated both local and state mask mandates at the 
WNBA
 finals in the Windy City.
The Chicago Sky clinched the WNBA title over the Phoenix Mercury at home Sunday with Lightfoot and fans packing Wintrust Arena for the final game.
After the Sky took the title, Lightfoot posted a picture online of her celebrating without a mask among legions of masked fans — going against her own city’s mask mandate.
BARI WEISS TELLS BRIAN STELTER HOW ‘THE WORLD HAS GONE MAD,’ LISTS ‘PEOPLE WHO WORK AT’ CNN AS A CAUSE
In fact, Lightfoot&#39;s maskless gallivanting skirted both the Chicago local ordinance as well as Illinois’ 
statewide mask
 mandate.
&#34;The Wintrust Arena is following all state and local mandates which require guests to wear masks indoors at all times, except when eating or drinking,&#34; the arena&#39;s 
website 
states. Lightfoot did not appear to be eating or drinking in the photo. 
Lightfoot’s office did not respond to Fox News’ request for comment on the photo or questions on why they posted a photo showing an apparent violation of the ordinances and what kind of example the mayor sets with the posted photo.
The Windy City’s mask mandate went back into effect in August, requiring face coverings indoors for everyone, including 
toddlers
 
as young as 2 years old, regardless of vaccination status.
Dr. Allison Arwady, Chicago’s public health commissioner, said she hopes the mask mandate will be 
removed
 again by the end of 2021.
&#34;For the next few weeks, at least, it is here to stay,&#34; Arwady said Sunday. &#34;We&#39;re a little over 300 cases right now, so when we&#39;re halfway in that substantial mark, we will recommend taking them off.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Chicago’s top doctor said that if cases of 
COVID-19
 fall below the 200 mark in the city of 2.7 million people, the mask mandate could end.
The Chicago Sky defeated the Phoenix Mercury for the 2021 WNBA championship by six points, 80 to 74.
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
