
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Top officials in the 
Biden administration
 are working to stop 
two Iranian vessels
 headed for Venezuela and Cuba that are believed to be carrying arms, a report said Wednesday.
Senior officials are pushing Caracas and Havana through diplomatic channels to block the Iranian ships from docking, 
Politico
 first reported.
Government officials in surrounding nations have also reportedly been contacted to help prevent the transfer of arms.
IRANIAN SHIPS ROUND CAPE OF GOOD HOPE FOR FIRST TIME, POSSIBLY TOWARD VENEZUELA: REPORTS
Strict sanctions were placed on Venezuela and its oil industry under Donald Trump. 
President Biden has yet to reverse the economic restrictions -- though White House officials 
suggested
 he may be willing to soften the sanctions if the Nicolas Maduro regime seeks a resolution of its conflict with the opposition party. 
But according to U.S. officials familiar with the discussions, the Venezuelan government is using the threat of an arms transfer to negotiate for sanction relief with the U.S., reported Politico.
The White House and State Department did not immediately return Fox News&#39; questions on the situation.
The U.S. seized oil from four Iranian tankers in August 2020 and has successfully disrupted 
oil deliveries
 over the last year by threatening increased sanctions.
The sanctions on Venezuela have prevented the country from being able to access oil supplies and have left the country desperate for petroleum sources.
Some 
Democrats
 on the Hill have pushed the Biden administration to lift these sanctions, arguing they are furthering human rights crises in the region. 
Iran – which has also been at loggerheads with the U.S. over Trump-era sanctions – has continued to allow their vessels to progress towards Venezuela.
One of the ships, the Makran, is believed to be carrying fast-attack boats that could then be sold to Venezuela. 
The Pentagon did not answer Fox News&#39; questions but instead pointed to a statement issued last week by Pentagon press secretary John Kirby that said any delivery of weapons &#34;would be a provocative act and a threat to our partners in this hemisphere.&#34;
&#34;As such, we would reserve the right to take appropriate measures – in concert with our partners – to deter the delivery or transit of such weapons,&#34; he added. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
U.S. officials have monitored the ships in recent weeks, but Kirby refused to comment on their progression in a press conference last week, telling reporters, &#34;I&#39;m not going to talk about intelligence matters.&#34;
&#34;I don&#39;t even speak to future operations for U.S. Navy ships, I&#39;m certainly not going to make a practice of speaking for future operations of a foreign Navy,&#34; he added. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
