
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Las Vegas
 Mayor Carolyn Goodman is an independent and a former Democrat, but she and 
Nevada
 Republican Party Chair Michael McDonald are on the same page when it comes to 2024 — they’re pushing for Las Vegas to host the
 
Republican National Convention.
Goodman took to Twitter on Monday to announce that Las Vegas had responded to an invitation sent by the 
Republican National Committee
 to a number of cities offering them the opportunity to submit a proposal to host the party’s 2024 presidential nominating convention.
TRUMP FLIRTING DOESN&#39;T STOP OTHER POTENTIAL 2024 GOP CONTENDERS FROM VISITING EARLY PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY AND CAUCUS STATES
&#34;Las Vegas is the premier destination for business and conventions. The Republican National Committee understands this and has asked Las Vegas to respond to a bid for the 2024 national convention. Las Vegas is open for business,&#34; the mayor touted in her tweet.
&#34;To me, this request is not about politics, it’s about bringing millions of dollars in convention business back to our local economy,&#34; Goodman emphasized in an accompanying statement. &#34;No one does conventions and conferences better than Las Vegas does, and our community is ready for this major economic boost.&#34;
A couple of hours later, McDonald said in a statement that &#34;this is a huge opportunity for our city and state to bring business back to the convention capital of the world. Outside of the honor of hosting the Republican convention, this is about bringing hundreds of millions of dollars to Nevada. We were excited for the opportunity to pitch this in 2020 and are confident that Las Vegas is the right place to hold the convention in 2024.&#34;
The RNC told Fox News that the invitations – which it says were sent to a few dozen cities – are the first step in the process, and that responses are due back to the national party committee no later than Dec. 1.
DID TRUMP JUST GO UP WITH THE FIRST AD OF THE 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN?
While Las Vegas has long touted itself as a top destination to host large confabs and events, it&#39;s never hosted a national political convention. And while Goodman announced her support, such a convention would likely take place in adjoining Clark County, where the storied Las Vegas Strip and the city’s well-known international airport are located. The Las Vegas Convention Center, the T-Mobile Arena, and Allegiant Stadium could be possible venues for any convention.
Nevada, which holds the fourth contest in the GOP presidential nominating calendar, is a key general election battleground state that 
President Biden
 carried by a narrow margin over 
former President Trump
 in last November&#39;s election.
RNC 
Chair Ronna McDaniel
 told Fox News last month that the early moves by some of the cities hoping to host the 2024 GOP presidential nominating convention were already underway.
&#34;I know that seems so long away, but those requests for proposals and cities getting out there to bid for that process is happening right now,&#34; McDaniel said in early August, ahead of the RNC’s summer meeting.  
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Among the cities interested in holding the 2024 convention is 
Nashville
, Tennessee, where the summer meeting was held. The RNC’s site selection committee for the 2024 convention was formally selected at the Nashville meeting.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
