
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Quanesha Burks will represent the United States as an Olympic long jumper this summer
The 
White House
 announced Tuesday that first lady Jill Biden will travel to 
Tokyo
 to attend the opening ceremony of the 
summer Olympics
, despite a spike in coronavirus cases prompting a recent decision to ban in-person spectators. 
The first lady will attend the opening ceremony on July 23 without 
President Biden
, according to a statement from the White House. Tokyo will be her first solo trip abroad as first lady.
TOKYO OLYMPICS WILL TAKE PLACE WITHOUT SPECTATORS
Japan&#39;s Olympics Minister Tamayo Marukawa 
announced
 last week that the Olympics would be held this year without any spectators due to the rise in coronavirus cases in Tokyo. The announcement came after a state of emergency was issued aimed at containing rising COVID-19 cases.
Given the state of emergency announcement, the first lady&#39;s office 
told CNN
 late last week that it was &#34;still assessing the feasibility of the first lady attending&#34; the Olympics.
Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said the state of emergency will go in place July 12 and last through Aug. 22. The Olympics begin July 23 and run through Aug. 8. The Paralympics will take place Aug. 24.
Athletes, media and sponsors are the only foreigners allowed in person at the games.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Former first ladies, including Michelle Obama, Laura Bush and Hillary Clinton, have previously represented the U.S. at the Olympic Games.
The White House did not respond to Fox News&#39; request for comment on the first lady&#39;s decision to attend the games despite the state of emergency. 
Fox News&#39; Ryan Gaydos and The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Kelly Laco is a news and politics editor for Fox News.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
