
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on FoxNews.com.
The 
Senate
 approved the confirmation of Christine Wormuth as Army secretary by unanimous consent Thursday – after a strange reversal of an earlier confirmation Wednesday.
The first unanimous consent approval came Wednesday, but then Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., 
asked
 to reverse that decision. He didn&#39;t immediately elaborate on the move.
BIDEN ATF NOMINEE SUPPORTS BAN ON AR-15
&#34;As in executive session, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate vitiate the previous action on Executive Calendar 135,&#34; Schumer said on the Senate floor. 
The Democrat deleted a tweet he had posted, hailing Wormuth&#39;s confirmation, 
Defense News reported
.
After the Senate convened at 10 a.m. ET Thursday, Wormuth 
was again confirmed
 by unanimous consent, meaning she was approved without a senator objecting, avoiding a formal roll call vote.

      Christine Elizabeth Wormuth speaks during a Senate Armed Services Committee nomination hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, May 13, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
(AP)
Last month, 
President Biden
 nominated Wormuth, who is the first woman to serve as secretary of the Army. 
Forbes reporter Andrew Solender tweeted that
 
Schumer received unanimous consent to &#34;vitiate,&#34; or rescind, the confirmation.
Just hours earlier, Wormuth called the confirmation an honor.
&#34;I am so honored to be confirmed as Secretary of the Army! Serving in this role is a tremendous privilege and responsibility!&#34; she 
wrote
 on Twitter. 
REPUBLICANS GRILL BIDEN ATF NOMINEE ON PAST REMARKS ON GUNS
Roll Call reporter Andrew Clevenger 
tweeted
 that the move &#34;looks more like a procedural hiccup than a threat to her historic confirmation.&#34;
Wormuth led Biden&#39;s transition team at the Pentagon. She previously served as the undersecretary of defense for policy and the senior director for defense policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Her most recent role was as director of the International Security and Defense Policy Center at the RAND Corp., a federally funded think tank.
Former Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who left the job in January, gave Wormuth a strong endorsement this month, saying she had &#34;the temperament, strategic thinking, and relationships that will enable the Army to be successful in the next decade.&#34;
The Senate Armed Services Committee had advanced her nomination Tuesday. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Wormuth grew up in College Station, Texas, and graduated from Williams College in Massachusetts, according to the 
White House
. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
