
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Rep. Jake Auchincloss, D-Mass., says the latest coronavirus wave is due to Republican pushback on mask mandates
The 
Biden
 administration is touting a recent increase in COVID-19 vaccinations in the United States, amid new concerns about the highly contagious Delta variant and fresh 
coronavirus
 restrictions. 
Cyrus Shahpar, the 
White House
&#39;s COVID-19 Data Director, took to Twitter to celebrate a &#34;big Friday&#34; where the number of newly vaccinated people hit its highest daily rate since July 1.  
And Saturday&#39;s new vaccination numbers were also an improvement from a week ago, which caught the attention of White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain. 
BIDEN SAYS FEDERAL WORKERS MUST BE VACCINATED OR UNDERGO REGULAR TESTING, MASKS AND SOCIAL DISTANCING
&#34;We are seeing more adults get their first shot than any time in the past 8-10 weeks,&#34; Klain tweeted in response to Shahpar&#39;s data. &#34;We are seeing particularly strong increases in the states that are hard hit by Delta.&#34;
The Biden administration aimed to get at least 70% of adult Americans at least partially vaccinated against COVID-19 by July 4. But the White House missed its target as daily vaccination rates tapered off from a peak in April. 
But with a renewed push to get jabbed, surge in coronavirus cases and imposition of new mask mandates in various spots around the country, there appears to be more interest now in getting the shots. According to the 
CDC
, just over 69.6% of adults in the country had received at least one vaccination shot as of Friday – just shy of Biden&#39;s original July 4 target. 
CDC BOSS WALENSKY, AFTER FOX TV APPEARANCE, WALKS BACK VACCINE MANDATE REMARKS
Nearly a month after Biden celebrated independence from coronavirus with 1,000 mask-free people at a July 4th White House fete, the CDC has now advised a return to masking to indoors for even vaccinated people living in areas of high transmission. Certain localities, including the U.S. House of Representatives, have followed with new mask mandates. 
Meanwhile, the Biden administration has reversed course on its initial hesitancy regarding federal mandates for vaccinations, with the Department of Veterans Affairs 
first mandating vaccinations
 for its medical personnel. Then Biden 
announced Thursday
 he will require federal workers to be vaccinated or submit to frequent testing.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
The crackdown is in response to the 
rise in coronavirus cases
 nationwide fueled by the more contagious Delta variant. On Thursday, the U.S. had almost 80,000 new COVID-19 cases. That&#39;s still well below the early January peak of nearly 300,000 new daily cases, but a stark rise from a month ago when daily cases were under 10,000 in the United States. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
