
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -- 
Democrat
 Melanie Stansbury won election to Congress for 
New Mexico
 on Tuesday with a campaign closely tied to initiatives of the Biden administration.
Stansbury prevailed in an open, four-way race to fill a vacant seat previously held by Interior Secretary Deb Haaland.
NEVADA&#39;S PUSH TO HOLD FIRST PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY SPARKS 2024 FIGHT
Stansbury closely tethered her bid for Congress to proposed and enacted Democratic legislation on pandemic relief, infrastructure spending and interventions to slow climate change. Her victory shores up the Democratic majority in Congress ahead of 2022 midterm elections.
DEMS TAKE NOTHING FFOR GRANTED IN NM SPECIAL ELECTION
She strode on stage in Albuquerque with both arms raised high, in celebration of her win. Thanking supporters and volunteers, she said the grit and determination that fueled her campaign was learned from her own mother, who worked in a denim factory and later as a crane mechanic.
&#34;When the moment demands it, when our families and our communities demand it, when our country demands it, we step up and find the solutions for communities and we figure it out,&#34; Stansbury said. &#34;And that is exactly what we did in this campaign and that is why I am standing before you tonight.&#34;
GOP CANDIDATE SPOTLIGHTS SURGE IN CRIME, DEFUND THE POLICE PUSH, IN SPECIAL ELECTION
Stansbury&#39;s victory preserves an all-female House delegation for the state. She defeated third-term Republican state Sen. Mark Moores to fill an Albuquerque-based seat that has been held by Democrats since 2009.
Libertarian nominee Chris Manning and independent Aubrey Dunn Jr. campaigned unsuccessfully to represent the 1st Congressional District, which encompasses Albuquerque, rural Torrance County and other outlying areas that include the Indigenous community of Sandia Pueblo.
SEN. TIM SCOTT TAKES AIM AT DEFUND THE POLICE MOVEMENT 
Stansbury reiterated her push for a $15 minimum wage, economic and racial equality and police reforms. She said there&#39;s a lot of work to do and she wants to give everyone a seat at the table as the country and its infrastructure is rebuilt.
Amid Election Day voting, she emphasized the need for a major round of federal infrastructure spending.
&#34;This is especially important for New Mexico because it includes funding for things like broadband and clean energy,&#34; Stansbury said.
The district&#39;s voters have heavily favored Democratic candidates in recent years, shunning former President Donald Trump with a gap of 23 percentage points in 2020 and reelecting Haaland with a margin of 16 percentage points as voter participation reached an all-time high.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Tuesday&#39;s election is among a handful of races to fill vacancies in Congress ahead of 2022 midterm elections. Democrats held a 219-211 majority in Congress going into Tuesday&#39;s vote in New Mexico.
Moores tried unsuccessfully to flip the seat to Republican control by highlighting concerns about crime in Albuquerque and painting his Democratic opponent as a radical progressive.
Sean Patrick Maloney, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said that enthusiasm is up among Democrats and that Stansbury&#39;s win helps ensure work can continue in Washington on the Democratic agenda.
New Mexico&#39;s 1st District seat has consistently been a stepping stone to higher office for Republican and Democratic politicians, including now-deceased Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr., former U.S. Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson, U.S. Sen. Martin Heinrich and Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham.
The district relies heavily on federal military and research funding as home to Kirtland Air Force Base and Sandia National Laboratories.
Trump in 2020 fell flat with Albuquerque-area voters after he sent federal agents to bolster local law enforcement efforts.
Republicans last year flipped the state&#39;s sprawling 2nd Congressional District in southern New Mexico as Yvette Herrell of Alamogordo ousted incumbent U.S. Rep. Xochitl Torres Small.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
