
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Former 
Secretary of State
 Mike Pompeo waded into the national debate over 
critical race theory
 Wednesday – slamming the idea of introducing the philosophy in U.S. schools.
&#34;No child should ever be taught to feel like a victim of circumstance or made to feel guilty for the color of their skin,&#34; he wrote on Facebook Wednesday morning. &#34;I will never support Critical Race Theory in our schools.&#34;
Pompeo, who last month argued that the future of the 
Republican Party
 lies in restoring 
faith-based virtues
, at a speaking event featuring prominent Republicans and potential 2024 candidates, frequently addresses hot-button issues on his social media pages.
The anti-CRT statement came hours after the Senate passed a budget amendment from Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Arkansas, that would ban federal funds from being spent on the controversial critical race theory curriculum in schools.
SENATE PASSES COTTON&#39;S AMENDMENT PREVENTING FEDERAL FUNDS FROM PROMOTING CRT IN SCHOOL
Critical race theory is a school of thought that posits systemic racism exists across American power structures and institutions.
CRT’s critics, including Sen. Cotton, say it&#39;s anti-American or a form of racism itself.
&#34;Our future depends on raising a generation of kids who love America and love each other as fellow citizens, no matter their race,&#34; Cotton said in a statement after the vote on his amendment. &#34;But Critical Race Theory teaches that our country is irredeemably racist, that ‘equality’ is a sham, and that true justice requires treating everyone differently—based on the color of their skin.&#34;
Christopher Rufo, a leading CRT critic and senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, cheered the 50-49 Senate vote on Twitter.
&#34;The fight against CRT has gone national—and Sen. Cotton is leading the way,&#34; he wrote.
Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W. Va., joined 49 Republicans voting for the amendment, and 47 Democrats plus the two independents who caucus with them voted against it. Sen. Mike Rounds, R-S.D., did not vote.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Roughly half the states in the country have already banned CRT in public schools.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
