
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Another Republican candidate is jumping into the 
2022 race
 to succeed retiring 
Republican
 Sen. 
Rob Portman
 of 
Ohio
, which is one of the most crowded and combustible GOP 
Senate 
primaries in the country.
Ohio state Sen. Matt Dolan on Monday announced his candidacy, charging that &#34;Ohio is under attack by the socialist agenda being pushed by President Biden and Democrats like Tim Ryan and Chuck Schumer.&#34;
THE LATEST BIG NAME ENDORSEMENT IN OHIO&#39;S GOP SENATE BATTLE 
But Dolan, a longtime state lawmaker whose family owns Major League Baseball’s Cleveland Indians (which will be renamed the Cleveland Guardians starting next season), also indirectly took aim at the Republican candidates already running, saying &#34;it’s clear that the focus of the race for the U.S. Senate has yet to be about our people, our interests, and our beloved state. This changes today with the announcement of my candidacy for U.S. Senate.&#34;
And the narrator in Dolan’s campaign launch video said &#34;what if Ohio’s next senator didn’t just talk big and loud, but had a real record of conservative success. What if our next senator didn’t pander about reducing government and cutting taxes but already did it, repeatedly.&#34;
Dolan becomes the 11th candidate vying for next year’s GOP Senate nomination in Ohio. The field also includes former Ohio treasurer and former two-time Senate candidate Josh Mandel; former Ohio GOP Chair Jane Timken; venture capitalist and best-selling author 
J.D. Vance
, Cleveland businessman and luxury auto dealership giant Bernie Moreno; and 2018 Ohio Republican Senate candidate Mike Gibbons, a Cleveland entrepreneur, real estate developer and investment banker. And longtime Rep. Mike Turner, who represents the state’s 10th Congressional District, has taken steps towards launching a campaign.
WITH J.D. VANCE IN THE RACE, OHIO GOP PRIMARY BECOMES BIGGER, MORE EXPENSIVE
The winner of next year’s Republican primary may face off against longtime Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of northeastern Ohio. Ryan, who declared his candidacy for the Senate in April, is considered the favorite for the Democratic nomination in a primary field expected to be much smaller than the large GOP roster of contenders. Progressive Morgan Harper, a former Consumer Financial Protection Bureau senior adviser and 2020 congressional candidate, announced her candidacy earlier this summer.
The U.S. Senate is split 50-50 between the two parties, but the Democrats hold a razor-thin majority due to the tie-breaking vote of Vice President Kamala Harris, who serves as president of the Senate. That means the GOP only needs a one-seat pickup to regain the majority.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But Republicans are defending 20 of the 34 seats up for grabs in 2022. Besides Ohio, the GOP is also defending open seats in the key battlegrounds of North Carolina and Pennsylvania as well as in Missouri and Alabama.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
