
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The 
Biden
 administration on Wednesday said the U.S. will seek election to the 
U.N
. Human Rights Council (UNHRC) nearly three years after former 
President Donald Trump
 withdrew from the body, according to a report. 
&#34;I&#39;m pleased to announce the United States will seek election to the Human Rights Council for the 2022-24 term,&#34; Secretary of State Antony Blinken told the council, according to Reuters. &#34;We humbly ask for the support of all U.N. member states in our bid to return to a seat in this body.&#34;
The decision will likely draw criticism from those in the pro-Israel community and conservative lawmakers. Trump 
pulled out of the UNHRC
 in 2018 after he accused the world body’s main human rights agency of showing a bias against Israel.
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION PLANS TO REENGAGE WITH UN RIGHTS COUNCIL, REVERSING TRUMP
In 2018, a senior official said the council passed more resolutions that year condemning Israel than Iran, Syria, and North Korea combined. 
&#34;As the United States re-engages, we urge the Human Rights Council to look at how it conducts its business. That includes its disproportionate focus on Israel,&#34; Blinken added, according to 
Reuters
. 

      Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks at the State Department, Thursday, Feb. 4, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
The Trump administration also criticized the body’s membership, which currently includes China, Cuba, Eritrea, Russia, and Venezuela -- all of which have been accused of human rights abuses.
Hillel Neuer, the executive director of advocacy group UN Watch, said the Obama administration had had a &#34;tendency to become a cheerleader for the council.&#34; He called on the Biden administration to instead call out the council&#39;s &#34;abuses.&#34;
Annual elections for three-year membership on the 47-member council generally take place at the U.N. General Assembly in October every year. The United Kingdom was elected as a member and started 
its three-year term
 last month.
UNITED NATIONS MOCKED FOR TWEET SAYING &#39;WE MUST NORMALIZE&#39; MEN CRYING
U.S. engagement with the council and its predecessor, the U.N. Human Rights Commission, has been something of a political football between Republican and Democratic administrations for decades. While recognizing its shortcomings, Democratic presidents have typically wanted a seat at the table, while Republicans have recoiled at its criticism of Israel.
Trump also walked away from the Paris Climate Accord, the Iran nuclear deal, the World Health Organization (WHO), U.N. education and cultural organization, UNESCO, and several arms-control treaties.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
Since taking office, Biden has rejoined both the Paris accord and the WHO and has signaled interest in returning to the Iran deal as well as UNESCO.
Earlier this month, Blinken said the U.S. would engage initially with the council in an observer status.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
