
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sen. Bill Hagerty, R-Tenn., discusses the situation at the U.S.-Mexico border on ‘America Reports.’ He also expresses criticism of Democrats’ proposed election security bill, which he calls a ‘complete power grab.’
Sen. Bill Hagerty, R-Tenn., is speaking out against 
Democrats’
 proposed 
election reform
 bill, calling the measure a &#34;complete power grab&#34; designed to take authority away from the states. 
The 
For the People Act of 2021
, known as H.R. 1, passed the House last week with no Republican support. 
President Biden has urged the Senate
 to pass the bill.
BIDEN SIGNS VOTER REGISTRATION EXECUTIVE ORDER AS HE PUSHES SENATE TO PASS SWEEPING HR 1 BILL
Hagerty joined 
John Roberts
 on &#34;
America Reports
&#34; on Wednesday to make his case against the bill.
SEN. BILL HAGERTY: &#34;If you like the way the Democrats are handling border security, just wait till they get their hands on election security. This so-called ‘For the People Act’ is another typically misnamed act here in Washington. It should be called ‘for the politicians,’ because what it does is it allows the Democrats, if it were to pass, to federalize our election system. 
HR1 VOTING EXPANSION BILL &#39;WRITTEN IN HELL BY THE DEVIL HIMSELF,&#39; SAYS MIKE LEE
You know, the Constitution is very clear in Article Two, Section One, state legislatures have the sole responsibility for setting the election laws. Those state legislators are directly responsible to their state’s voters. What happens in this bill? They want to take all that away. 
It’s going to create a lot more concern about the election at a time when we need to be creating more confidence in our elections. 
I cannot imagine a single Republican going for this effort, which is really just a complete power grab by the Democrats. They’ve taken control of the executive branch, the legislative branch. This is their effort to make it permanent, to go to a single party system. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
We’re looking to Senator [Joe] Manchin and to Senator [Kyrsten] Sinema [to] keep to their word to maintain the filibuster. I think what this will feel like on the other side, they don’t want to be in the situation either. It would remove any chance of having bipartisanship. So my hope and my expectation is that it will not change. As long as the filibuster rule stays in place, this will not become law.&#34;
Fox News’ 
Evie Fordham
 contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
