
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A longtime 
California
 Democratic lawmaker badly bungled the Pledge of Allegiance during a 
Los Angeles
 city council meeting Tuesday morning, video shows.
When asked by Council President 
Nury Martinez
 to lead the chamber in the Pledge of Allegiance Tuesday morning at a virtual meeting, Council Member 
Kevin de Leon
 replied, &#34;It would be an honor.&#34;
But then, according to the video, he said this:
MICHIGAN TEACHER LEADS NEIGHBORHOOD KIDS IN PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE AMID CORONAVIVRUS CLOSURES
&#34;I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America…undervisible, I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America…for which it stands. One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all…oof.&#34;
The words to the Pledge are as follows:
&#34;I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.&#34;
De Leon, who launched 
a failed bid
 to oust Sen. Dianne Feinstein, a fellow Democrat, in 2018, has presumably sat through thousands of legislative meetings that begin with the pledge. He previously served in the state Senate as its Democratic majority leader, and in the state Assembly.

      Kevin de Leon, President pro Tempore of the California State Senate, speaks at the Netroots Nation annual conference for political progressives in New Orleans, Louisiana, U.S. August 4, 2018. REUTERS/Jonathan Bachman
      
(Reuters)
But Tuesday’s awkward gaffe is not his first.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In 2014, he went viral for a bizarre, erroneous statement on firearms during a news conference aimed at reining in ghost guns.
&#34;This is a ghost gun,&#34; he said, holding up a rifle. &#34;This right here has the ability, with a .30-caliber clip, to disperse with 30 bullets within half a second. Thirty magazine clip in half a second.&#34;
His office did not immediately respond to a Fox News request for comment.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
