
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Can President legally force vaccinations?
President Biden’s
 executive order mandating 
COVID-19
 vaccines among all federal workers does not apply to members of 
Congress
, the federal court system or their staffers.
Biden’s order Thursday mandating COVID-19 
vaccinations
 among federal workers and contractors drops the option of regular testing and allows only some religious and disability exemptions. The order applies only to employees of the executive branch and does not apply to the legislative or 
judicial
 branches of government, the 
White House
 confirmed to Fox News.
REPUBLICANS EXPLODE WITH FURY OVER BIDEN VACCINE MANDATE: &#39;ABSOLUTELY UNCONSTITUTIONAL&#39;
In April, House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
 said Congress couldn’t mandate the vaccine among members and that it was a &#34;matter of privacy.&#34; In early August, she signaled she would be open to mandating the vaccine once it was granted full approval by the Food and Drug Administration, but she has not appeared to have revisited the issue since Pfizer’s vaccine was approved late last month.
On Aug. 3, a group of House Democrats 
sent a letter
 to the Attending Physician of Congress, Dr. Brian Monahan, asking him to mandate vaccines for members of Congress and their staff or to require twice-weekly COVID-19 testing. It is not clear how many members of the 
House
 and 
Senate
 remain unvaccinated, but the number is estimated to be very low.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
As part of his plan announced Thursday, Biden said companies with 100 or more employees will have to mandate vaccines or weekly COVID-19 testing under a forthcoming emergency order by the Labor Department’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which will apply to more than 80 million private-sector workers. The administration said companies that don’t comply can face fines of almost $14,000. 
Republicans have blasted the order as unconstitutional.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
