
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
White House correspondent Kevin Corke breaks down how the nation&#39;s capital is getting ready for Inauguration Day.
Multiple speakers are set to deliver remarks, readings or oaths during the 
59th presidential inauguration
 swearing-in ceremony on Wednesday.
The celebration, scaled down this year due to the 
oronavirus pandemic
 and tightly guarded amid 
security threats
, will take place Wednesday at the West Front of the U.S. Capitol.
The special attendees of the star-studded 
Washington, D.C.
, event include a former 
2020 presidential candidate
, two reverends, two members of the 
U.S. Supreme Court
, and America&#39;s first-ever national youth poet laureate.
BIDEN INAUGURATION DAY: HOW MANY PEOPLE WILL ATTEND CEREMONY IN-PERSON?
Vocal powerhouses 
Lady Gaga and Jennifer Lopez
 will perform the national anthem and an Americana musical selection, respectively, before 
Vice President-elect Kamala Harris
 is sworn in and President-elect 
Joe Biden
 delivers his inaugural address. Country star Garth Brooks will then perform a song with the Marine Band.
Here are the individuals who have been chosen to participate: 
Sen. Amy Klobuchar
Minnesota
 
Democratic
 
Sen. Amy Klobuchar
 is 
set to deliver
 welcome remarks and introduce Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies Chairman 
Sen. Roy Blunt
, R-Mo., the Supreme Court justices and Biden. 
Klobuchar was 
first elected to the Senate in 2006
, and has been twice re-elected. Her current term ends on Jan. 3, 2025.
Klobuchar participated in the 2020 presidential race, gathering a loyal group of supporters before 
she dropped out last March
 ahead of the Super Tuesday contests and backed Biden.
The moderate
 was the first woman elected to represent Minnesota in the U.S. Senate and previously interned for former Vice President Walter Montale.
Prior to her career in 
politics
, Klobuchar led the largest 
prosecutor&#39;s office
 in the state for eight years. 
She graduated magna cum laude
 from 
Yale University
 and the University of Chicago Law School.

      Democratic presidential candidate Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., waves as she arrives to speak to the Scott County Iowa Democrats Saturday, Jan. 25, 2020, in Bettendorf, Iowa. (AP Photo/Sue Ogrocki)
      
(AP Photo/Sue Ogrocki)
JCCIC Chairman Roy Blunt
Missouri
 
Republican
 Sen. Roy Blunt 
is the chairman
 of the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies
 
(JCCIC).
Blunt grew up on a dairy farm
 and was the first person in his family to graduate from college at Southwest Baptist University, where he later served as the 
school&#39;s 
president. 
Blunt earned his master&#39;s degree from Missouri State University.
The Kennedy Center Board of Trustees member was a history teacher before serving in 
Congress
. 
In 1984, he became the first Republican elected as Missouri’s Secretary of State in more than 50 years.
The public servant was elected seven times to the 
U.S. House of Representatives
 and was elected House Majority Whip earlier in his career than any Member of Congress in eight decades.
Blunt was elected to the 
Senate
 in 2010 and was appointed to the Senate leadership during his first year in the Senate.
&#34;The great American tradition of an inaugural ceremony has occurred in times of peace, in times of turmoil, in times of prosperity, and in times of adversity,&#34; Blunt and Klobuchar wrote in a joint statement released on the day after the 
Jan. 6 assault on the U.S. Capitol
. &#34;We will be swearing in President-elect Biden and Vice President-elect Harris on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol on January 20, 2021.&#34;
Father Leo J. O&#39;Donovan III 
Father Leo J. O&#39;Donovan III, introduced by Blunt, will deliver the invocation.
O&#39;Donovan, a Jesuit priest and 
the former president
 of his alma mater, Georgetown University, until 2001, is a 
longtime family friend
 of the Bidens. 
In 2015, O&#39;Donovan led the funeral mass for the 
president-elect&#39;s son Beau
, who died of 
brain cancer
 at age 46.
Three years later, Biden would write the foreward to O&#39;Donovan&#39;s book &#34;Blessed Are the Refugees: Beatitudes of Immigrant Children.&#34;
The Queens, N.Y., native received a Fulbright Scholarship before entering the Society of Jesus in 1957. 
O&#39;Donovan -- who wrote a letter opposing the 
Trump administration&#39;s
 
immigration policies
 in 2016 -- is the director of mission for Jesuit Refugee Service USA and has returned to teaching as a visiting professor.
O&#39;Donovan also previously served on The Walt Disney Company&#39;s Board of Directors at the direction of former Disney CEO Michael Eisner. Eisner&#39;s son attended Georgetown.
Andrea Hall 
Andrea Hall
, a 
Georgia
 fire captain, will lead the nation in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
The 47-year-old
 is from the city of South Fulton and the 
first Black female firefighter
 to serve as captain of South Fulton&#39;s Fire Rescue Department.
Starting her career in fire services in 1993, Hall was promoted to her current rank in 2004 by Fulton County and is the local chapter president of the International Association of Fire Fighters Local 3920.
The trailblazer said she was asked by the International Association of Fire Fighters and Biden&#39;s inauguration committee to deliver the pledge.
&#34;I am thrilled and humbled to represent firefighters and other frontline workers in the state of Georgia and the City of South Fulton,&#34; Hall said in a statement.  &#34;It is a privilege and an honor to help usher in a new chapter of leadership for our country.&#34;

      U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor participates in an annual Women&#39;s History Month reception hosted by Pelosi in the U.S. capitol building on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Allison Shelley/Getty Images)
      
(2015 Getty Images)
Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor
Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor will administer the vice presidential oath of office, swearing in Vice President-elect Kamala D. Harris.
Another 
New York City
 native, 
Sotomayor was born in the Bronx
. She 
received her
 bachelor&#39;s degree from Princeton University -- 
awarded the Pyne Prize
, the highest academic award given to undergraduate students -- and attended Yale Law School to earn her Juris Doctor degree in 1979.
Sotomayor served as assistant district attorney in the New York County District Attorney&#39;s Office until 1984 when she joined business law firm Pavia &amp; Harcourt.
Eventually making partner at the firm, Sotomayor was nominated to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in 1991 by President George H.W. Bush and then served as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from 1998 till 2009.
Former President Barack Obama
 then nominated her as an associate justice of the Supreme Court -- a position she took up in August of that year.
Sotomayor 
became the first Hispanic Supreme Court justice
 in the history of the United States.
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. will administer the presidential oath of office, swearing in President-elect Joe Biden.
Roberts was born upstate from Sotomayor 
in Buffalo, N.Y.
, and traveled to the similarly-snowy Harvard College where he earned his Bachelor&#39;s Degree in 1976 and a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School in 1979.
Roberts served as a law clerk for Judge Henry J. Friendly of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit for a year after his graduation and then clerked for former Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist in1980. 
Roberts was special assistant to Attorney General William French Smith from 1981 to 1982, an aide to 
White House
 counsel to 
President Ronald Reagan
 Fred Fielding from 1982 to 1986, and 
appointed Principal Deputy Solicitor General
 from 1989 until 1993.
Roberts practiced law in the private sector intermittently until 2003 when he was appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
In 2005, President George W. Bush nominated him as chief justice of the United States.
President Joe Biden
After taking the oath of office, Biden is expected to speak between 20-30 minutes, a source told Fox News. His inaugural address is expected to focus heavily on the need for unity amid significant national challenges, and he is expected to reach out to all Americans to pull together behind his vision for the country.
Amanda Gorman 
Amanda Gorman, 22, is 
set to become the sixth poet
 to perform at a presidential inauguration, as well as the youngest in history.
The 
Los Angeles
 native who also studied at Harvard became the nation&#39;s first national youth poet laureate in 2017 under the recommendation of Dr. Jill Biden.
Much like the president-elect, Gorman has struggled with a 
speech impediment
 since her childhood.
Her poem, titled &#34;The Hill We Climb,&#34; will reportedly allude to the riots at the Capitol two weeks ago.
She told the Associated Press
 last week that while she had not been told what to write by inauguration organizers, she had received guidance to &#34;emphasize unity&#34; -- a hallmark of Biden&#39;s campaign.
Gorman, who has a children&#39;s book coming out later this year, 
reportedly plans to run for president
 in 2036.
Reverend Doctor Silvester S. Beaman 
Lastly, 
Reverend Doctor Silvester S. Beaman
 will deliver the benediction.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Beaman, who 
hails from New York&#39;s Niagara Falls
, is the pastor of Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Wilmington, De., and a longtime friend of Biden.
The Wilberforce University graduate met Biden in 1993 and was known to travel with Biden during his previous presidential campaigns.
Beaman, also a close friend to Beau Biden, participated in his 2015 funeral service.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
