
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News&#39; Chad Pergram reports.
The United States Capitol Police (USCP) will open new regional offices in response to increased threats to members of 
Congress
 since the 
Jan. 6 Capitol attack
, the police agency announced Tuesday. 
The first announced two field offices will open in 
California
 and 
Florida
, with additional states expected in the &#34;near future,&#34; acting USCP Chief Yogananda Pittman 
said in a statement Tuesday
. The purpose will be &#34;to investigate threats to Members of Congress.&#34;
FENCE SURROUNDING US CAPITOL IS EXPECTED TO COME DOWN STARTING ON JULY 8
In a follow-up statement to Fox News, USCP revealed the new offices will be in the Tampa and San Francisco areas because that&#39;s where many of the threats are concentrated and more offices are on the way. 
&#34;The new USCP field offices will be in the Tampa and San Francisco areas. At this time, Florida and California are where the majority of our potential threats are,&#34; the U.S. Capitol Police statement to Fox News said. &#34;The field offices will be the first for the Department. A regional approach to investigating and prosecuting threats against Members is important, so we will be working closely with the U.S. Attorney’s Offices in those locations. More field offices will be opening in the future.&#34;

      Acting chief of the U.S. Capitol Police Yogananda Pittman listens during a news conference after a car crashed into a barrier on Capitol Hill near the Senate side of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Friday, April 2, 2021.(AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
      
The expansion of the Capitol Police presence beyond Washington D.C. is part of a greater effort to protect lawmakers in their home districts in the face of increased concerns for their safety. The police reported in May that there&#39;s been a 
107% increase
 in threats to members of Congress compared to 2020 and predicted no let-up in sight. 
CAPITOL POLICE: THREATS AGAINST MEMBERS OF CONGRESS INCREASED BY 107% IN ONE YEAR
In response, USCP also increased staffing for its Dignitary Protection Division and enhanced its coordination with local law enforcement to protect members of Congress when they are home, the police said. 
California and Florida are two of the largest states in the country and therefore have two of the largest congressional delegations, including senior ranking party leaders like House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif. Pelosi, who was targeted by the Jan. 6 rioters, resides in San Francisco where one of the offices will be located. 

      FILE - In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 file photo supporters of President Donald Trump are confronted by U.S. Capitol Police officers outside the Senate Chamber inside the Capitol in Washington. Jacob Anthony Chansley, the Arizona man with the painted face and wearing a horned, fur hat, was taken into custody Saturday, Jan. 9, 2021 and charged with counts that include violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, file)
      
Members of Congress have reported having to take extra security precautions at their homes in response to the increased threat level. In one instance, Rep. Nancy Mace, R-S.C., had to call the police in Charleston after her 
house was vandalized
 over Memorial Day weekend with profanity and anarchist symbols.
SC REP. NANCY MACE&#39;S HOME VANDALIZED WITH ANTIFA SYMBOLS: &#39;IT&#39;S SUCH A VIOLATION OF ONE&#39;S PRIVACY&#39;
USCP&#39;s Pittman announced Tuesday an array of steps the police have taken since the Jan. 6 riot to better protect the Capitol, increase training and to beef up equipment and communication capabilities. 
&#34;Throughout the last six months, the United States Capitol Police has been working around the clock with our Congressional stakeholders to support our officers, enhance security around the Capitol Complex, and pivot towards an intelligence-based protective agency,&#34; Pittman said. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Florida GOP Rep. 
Kat Cammack
, who is married to a first responder, praised the work of the Capitol Police and their recent expansion to her home state. 
&#34;Over the last six months, I’ve had the honor of getting to know the dedicated men and women of the United States Capitol Police,&#34; Cammack, who represents the Gainsville area, told Fox News. &#34;The hardworking law enforcement officers of the Capitol Hill community work tirelessly to protect Members and staff and I know their work in this capacity will only continue, especially as they expand into field offices in California and Florida. 
&#34;As we continue serving our districts, it’s reassuring to know they’ll continue working with local police departments and sheriffs to keep lawmakers and our communities as safe as possible.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
