
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News congressional correspondent Chad Pergram has the details from Capitol Hill on &#39;Special Report&#39;
Rep. Adam Schiff
, D-
Calif
., may be looking to vacate his congressional seat in favor of a job at the state level, according to new reports.
Schiff is allegedly working behind the scenes to lobby California 
Gov. Gavin Newsom
 to appoint him as the Golden State’s next attorney general, Axios reported Tuesday night, citing sources familiar with the situation. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., supports the move, Politico added.
The seat will soon open up if its current occupant and 
President Biden’s
 nominee for secretary of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra, is confirmed. It was once held by 
Vice President Kamala Harris
, before her election to the U.S. Senate.

      FILE - In this March 3, 2020, file photo House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., talks to reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington. Schiff said Tuesday, Sept. 29, that he will subpoena the Department of Homeland Security after a department whistleblower wasn’t allowed access to documents and clearance he needs to testify. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)
      
REP. ADAM SCHIFF SAYS TRUMP MUST GO, BACKS SECOND IMPEACHMENT
The move would mark a major shift for Schiff, currently the influential chairman of the House Intelligence Committee who saw his national profile rise during the Russia investigation and then the first impeachment of former President Trump. But, it also would allow him more time in his home state ahead of 87-year-old Democratic California Sen. Dianne Feinstein’s possible retirement at the end of her term in 2025.
Schiff’s district is reliably Democratic, and the party would still hold a majority in the House of Representatives until his replacement is chosen – albeit a narrow one.
Schiff has represented California’s 28th District for almost 20 years. As a former federal prosecutor who graduated from Harvard Law School, he has experience that would ostensibly qualify him to lead the state attorney general’s office – although critics have accused him of partisanship. Still, Pelosi has been advocating on his behalf, Politico 
reported.
His office could not immediately be reached for comment.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It’s unclear who would fill Schiff’s seat on the Intel Committee. Fellow California Democratic 
Rep. Eric Swalwell
, another ally of Pelosi&#39;s, remains on the committee – despite his unexplained ties to an alleged 
Chinese spy
 named Fang Fang.
For his part, Newsom is facing low point in his approval ratings -- a 
recall effort
 seeking his removal from office that’s been gaining steam, and a worsening coronavirus outbreak.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
