
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The 
Arizona
 Democratic Party has called for the immediate resignation of a rising star Phoenix 
Democrat
 after he was arrested and charged with sexual misconduct with a minor. 
State Sen. Tony Navarrete, 35, was charged this week with sexually abusing a boy for years and attempting to abuse another. 
&#34;While everyone in this country is entitled to a fair trial, elected officials must be held to the highest ethical standards,&#34; the Arizona Democratic Party said in a statement Friday. &#34;Given the gravity of the felony charges against State Senator Tony Navarrete, the Arizona Democratic Party is calling for his immediate resignation.&#34;
Navarrete, who represents a west Phoenix district, was a rising star in the Democratic Party and was considered a likely candidate for statewide office, perhaps as soon as 2022. He is serving his second term in the state Senate after one term in the House.
ARIZONA STATE DEM ARRESTED FOR ALLEGED SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR IN 2019: REPORTS
His Democratic colleagues in the state House and Senate called the charges against Navarrete &#34;disturbing&#34; and also urged him to resign. 
&#34;Abuse of this kind is intolerable and our hearts go out to the victims,&#34; the legislative Democrats said in a joint statement. 
Navarrete appeared in court by a video feed from jail on Friday where his bond was set at $50,000. 
He is accused of repeatedly abusing a boy with whom he was living over a period of several years, according to court records. The boy, now 16, told detectives that Navarrete touched his genitals with his hands and mouth, starting when he was around 12 or 13 and continuing through his 15th birthday. The teen said he suffers from anxiety and anger that stems from the abuse.

      Tony Navarrete (Arizona State Legislature)
      
JUSTICE DEPT. LAUNCHES PHOENIX POLICE PROBE OVER ALLEGED USE-OF-FORCE, TREATMENT OF HOMELESS
In a phone call recorded by police on Thursday afternoon, Navarrete apologized to the teen, saying he regretted his actions and would have to live with them for the rest of his life, according to the court records. When asked why he did it, he told the boy he &#34;wasn’t well,&#34; detectives wrote.
The teen’s younger brother, now 13, told police that Navarrete touched his upper leg inside his shorts, causing the boy to slap away the hand and get up, detectives wrote in a probable cause affidavit filed in court.
Arizona&#39;s Republican governor, Doug Ducey, has also called for Navarrete to step down immediately.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;These allegations are abhorrent,&#34; Ducey tweeted. &#34;My prayers are with the young victims and their loved ones during this traumatic time.&#34;
If convicted of all charges, Navarrete could face a mandatory minimum sentence of 49 years behind bars.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
