
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Chairman of the National Guard Association Michael McGuire argues &#39;it&#39;s time to return our guardsmen home&#39; and back to their communities.
A Presbyterian minister is suing House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
, Vice President 
Kamala Harris
, the U.S. Capitol Police Board, and the Senate Sergeant at Arms, claiming that the continued presence of a fence blocking off the area surrounding the Capitol building is violating his First Amendment rights.
Rev. Patrick Mahoney says in his 
complaint
, filed Tuesday in federal court, that he has been trying to hold a prayer vigil for Good Friday on the sidewalk near the Lower Western Terrace of the Capitol, but authorities denied his request. Mahoney claims that he has held many similar events at the same location in the past, including last year, when he worked with Capitol Police to make sure the event complied with COVID-19 restrictions.

      WASHINGTON, DC - APRIL 10: Rev. Patrick Mahoney, director of the Christian Defense Coalition, kneels in prayer as he livestreams a Good Friday service on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol on April 10, 2020 in Washington, DC. Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, Christians around the globe will mark the Easter holiday. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
      
(Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
PELOSI HIRES DC NATIONAL GUARD CHIEF TO LEAD HOUSE SECURITY
&#34;These acts by Defendants have effectively created a no-speech zone in one of the most important public forums in the nation,&#34; the complaint reads.
The area around the Capitol has been fenced off and the National Guard has been present in the area following the violent protest that took place on Jan. 6. Mahoney said that incident was part of the inspiration for the vigil, stating in the lawsuit that it is &#34;for the express purpose of beseeching God’s healing from the divisiveness and anxiety lingering over our nation since the tragic events of January 6, 2021.&#34;
DC NATIONAL GUARD HEAD SAYS ARMY GENERALS ADVISED AGAINST SOLDIERS TO CAPITOL DURING RIOT DUE TO OPTICS
An email from Capitol Police to Mahoney obtained by Fox News said that the area where the minister wanted to hold the vigil was &#34;restricted&#34; and therefore his permit request could not be processed. As an alternative, a police lieutenant said Mahoney could apply to hold the vigil at a sidewalk area that Mahoney told Fox News was &#34;quite far from where I wanted to be.&#34;
Mahoney claims that his prohibition from holding the vigil violates his First Amendment rights of free speech, assembly, and free exercise of religion. He also claims violations of his Fifth Amendment right to due process and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
Fox News reached out to Pelosi, Harris, and the Capitol Police Board for comment on the lawsuit, but they did not immediately respond.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Mahoney&#39;s lawsuit was brought on his behalf by the Center for American Liberty.
&#34;Denying a minister and faithful parishioners the ability to pray outside the U.S. Capitol is unfathomable and violates First Amendment guarantees for traditional public forums,&#34; the center&#39;s CEO, Harmeet K. Dhillon, said in a statement.
Fox News&#39; Brooke Singman contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
