
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Rep. Peter Meijer, R-Mich., on the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan raising grave concerns of human rights.
Fears are growing that the Taliban will move to implement Sharia Law with their trademark brutal enforcement, putting the lives of people 
President Biden
 has professed to be a champion of at risk.
As the Taliban&#39;s aggressive offensive across Afghanistan is now in the capital city of Kabul, the group has 
promised to declare
 the new Islamic Emirate of 
Afghanistan
 from the presidential palace.
The Taliban ruled the country for five years under the same name before being driven out of power by U.S.-led coalition forces in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, imposing their strict interpretation of Sharia Law on the citizens of Afghanistan. 
WORLD LEADERS BLAME BIDEN, EXPRESS DISAPPOINTMENT WITH AFGHANISTAN
The Taliban
 used brutal tactics
 to enforce their religious dictatorship during those five years, including public executions, stonings, and whippings.
Simple activities those in the West take for granted were banned under Taliban rule, including a prohibition on the playing of music. Petty crimes such as theft were punished harshly, with amputations of hands of those found guilty of such crimes.
Taliban rule was 
particularly dangerous
 for those Biden has often 
claimed to champion
, with women only being able to leave their homes with signed permission from a man, always while being forced to wear a burka. Meanwhile, the education of young girls was also forbidden by the Taliban.
The situation could be even more dire for LGBT individuals in the country, with a Taliban judge 
professing last month
 that the penalty for homosexuality will be death under their rule.
&#34;There are only two penalties for gays: Either stoning or he has to stand behind a wall that falls on him. The wall must be 2.5 to 3 meters high,&#34; the judge told the German newspaper 
Bild
.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
While the Taliban has in recent months 
signaled their intent
 not to
 return to the dark period
 that defined their previous rule, reports suggest the group 
has no intention
 of holding up their end of the bargain.
&#34;They have no intention of abiding by their agreement,&#34; one official said of the Taliban&#39;s plans earlier this year, according to 
NBC News
.
Michael Lee is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@UAMichaelLee
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
