
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The 
Democrat 
considered by many pundits to be his party’s best shot at flipping one of 
Missouri
’s two 
Republican
 controlled
 Senate 
seats blue says he’s not running.
Former two-term Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon announced on Thursday that &#34;I am not running for U.S. Senate&#34; in the
 2022 race
 to succeed retiring GOP 
Sen. Roy Blunt.
MISSOURI AG SCHMITT SPOTLIGHTS ‘PUSHBACK’ AGAINST BIDEN IN 2022 SENATE RACE
Nixon, who served 6 years as a state senator and 16 years as Missouri’s attorney general before winning election as governor in 2008, highlighted in a statement that he shared on social media that &#34;I choose a different path.&#34;
&#34;I always thrived on policy more than politics,&#34; Nixon emphasized. &#34;My post-governor involvement on a myriad of matters is not filtered through a partisan lens — that is liberating and I want it to continue.&#34;
THE 2022 MISSOURI GOP SENATE PRIMARY BATTLE ADDS ANOTHER CONTENDER
Thanks to his high recognition and popularity in the state – he won reelection in 2012 by 12 points – some Democrats saw Nixon as the party’s only hope to recapture a Senate seat in a onetime battleground state that’s turned increasingly red in recent years. The former governor had received calls from national Democratic Party leaders following Blunt’s retirement announcement in March, inquiring on whether he’d launch a campaign.
Six Democrats have already launched campaigns, including former state Sen. Scott Sifton, former Marine Lucas Kunce, and former congressional nominee Gena Ross. And a handful of other Democrats, including Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas, are weighing bids.
Eight Republicans have declared their candidacy, including former Gov. Eric Greitens – who left office in 2018 amid multiple controversies – Missouri Attorney General 
Eric Schmitt
, 
Rep.Vicky Hartzler
 in Missouri’s 4th Congressional District, in the predominantly rural west-central part of the state, and Mark McCloskey, the 
St. Louis
 attorney who along with his wife grabbed national headlines during the summer of 2020 for holding guns outside their home to warn off Black Lives Matter protesters.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
And the Republican primary field may grow in the coming weeks and months, with Reps. Billy Long, Jason Smith and Ann Wagner all considering bids.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
