
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A 
Washington State 
Patrol officer who refused to comply with the state’s vaccine mandate signed out for the last time on Friday and issued a strongly worded message to Gov. Jay Inslee.
Robert LaMay, the officer, filmed his final sendoff in a video obtained by Jason Rantz, 
a host on KTTH
 770/94.5FM in Seattle.
He thanked his fellow officers but said he was asked to leave &#34;because I am dirty.&#34;
CLICK FOR THE LATEST ON THE CORONAVIRUS
He said that he worked sick and buried a lot of friends over the past 22 years of service. He acknowledged that it was the effort of the entire team that got him home safe every night to be with his family.

      Washington Gov. Jay Inslee provides details on a temporary statewide shutdown of restaurants, bars and entertainment and recreational facilities to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on March 16, 2020, in Seattle, Washington. Pool/Getty Images)
      
&#34;I wish I could say more, but this is it so state 10-34, this is the last time you’ll hear me in a state patrol car. And Jay Inslee can kiss my a--.&#34;
On Monday, Washington will require more than 800,000 workers in the state to either be fully vaccinated or have received an exemption and job accommodation in order to keep their jobs. 
The mandate applies to most state workers, long-term care employees, and teachers and staff at the state’s schools, including the state’s colleges and universities. The only opt-out is a medical or religious exemption, though the exemption only ensures continued employment if a job accommodation can be made.
Inslee’s office did not immediately respond to a Fox News request for comment.
The mandatory vaccination has been the source of contention from both sides. Opponents say these orders are an infringement on their personal liberties, while supporters insist that mandatory vaccinations are needed in order to move past the COVID-19 pandemic.
Q13 Fox 
reported 
that the mandate for Washington state workers took effect Monday, and if they don’t comply they could lose their job. About 90% of the state’s workforce has been vaccinated.
GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Inslee has said that there should not be any disruption in state services.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
