
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The ‘Outnumbered’ panel discusses Vice President Kamala Harris’ attempt to control the fallout from her recent viral exchange on Israel 
Vice President Kamala Harris
 and Second Gentleman 
Doug Emhoff
​ went for a power walk on Sunday in 
Washington, DC
, following her hush-hush overnight trip to 
California
 over the weekend.  ​
The Second Couple was captured in images ​taking advantage of the 85 degrees, sunny day in the capital.​
The Veep wore a black Lululemon shirt, Nike Airmax shoes,​ and a baseball cap from Howard University, her alma mater.
KAMALA HARRIS TAKES QUICK, UNEXPLAINED CALIFORNIA TRIP: REPORTS
​Emhoff, matching her stride for stride, sported gray shorts and a blue polo shirt.
​He topped off the outfit with a 
Los Angeles Dodgers
 ball cap.
Tattoos on his inner left arm spelled out his son Cole’s and daughter Ella’s names.
The couple were followed closely behind by a contingent of Secret Service agents.
KAMALA HARRIS FACES PROTESTERS WAVING AFGHANISTAN FLAG DURING NEWSOM RALLY IN CALIFORNIA
The sojourn along DC’s streets came after Harris took off at Joint Base Andrews in 
Maryland
 for a mysterious trip to California on Friday and returned Saturday.
The White House has been tight-lipped about the reason for the cross-country jaunt, and there was nothing listed on her public schedule.
Media ​were barred from covering her arrival at Palm Springs International Airport​ but her motorcade had a heavy police presence, local media reported.
Harris jetted off for California as President Biden traveled to Capitol Hill on Friday to press Democrats to keep his legislative agenda alive after infighting threatened to scuttle his $1.2 infrastructure plan and its companion, the $3.5 trillion social spending package.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Last month, Harris went to California to support 
Gov. Gavin Newsom
 in a recall election, which he won. ​
Harris represented California in the US Senate and served as the state’s attorney general.​
Emhoff is also from the Golden State. ​
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
