
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The push by some 
Republicans
 in 
Michigan
 to recall 
Gov. Gretchen Whitmer
 may be backfiring – and helping to fuel fundraising by the first-term Democrat who is running for 
reelection
 next year.
Whitmer’s reelection campaign announced on Monday that the governor hauled in an eyepopping $8.6 million in 
fundraising
 from Jan. 1 through July 20, breaking a record for a Michigan gubernatorial incumbent or candidate in an off-election year.
MICHIGAN&#39;S WHITMER STRIPPED OF EMERGENCY POWERS
A good chunk of the governor’s change came from some top-dollar donors who were able to give more than the normal legal limit, due to a caveat.
Michigan law dictates that the maximum amount an individual donor can contribute to a gubernatorial campaign committee is $7,150. But Whitmer’s been able to circumvent the legal limits due to a 1984 state ruling that says contribution limits didn’t apply to governors – such as Whitmer – who are defending themselves against recall efforts.

      FILE - In this July 12, 2021, file photo Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer speaks at a vaccine mobilization event in Detroit. Gov. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, File)
      
Whitmer’s campaign noted that nearly 30 recall petitions have been filed against the governor, mostly by those on the right who were furious over the restrictions she implemented last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. 
Fewer than 1% of Whitmer’s contributions this year were above the normal limit of $7,150, according to an analysis by Michigan Campaign Finance Network Executive Director Simon Schuster. But Schuster told 
MLive.com
 that the donations from contributors giving over the normal limit – thanks to the recall carveout – accounted for nearly 44% of her 2021 fundraising haul. According to his preliminary calculations, Whitmer would have raised $5.9 million instead of $8.6 million if contributions were capped at $7,150.
Some GOP strategists in Michigan are calling on recall activists to power down.
TUDOR DIXON USES CPAC APPEARANCE IN TEXAS TO BOOST HER MICHIGAN CAMPAIGN
Among them is Fred Wszolek, a veteran Republican consultant who’s currently advising the 2022 campaign of Tudor Dixon, one of the leading Republicans challenging the governor.
&#34;Every grassroots conservative in MI should turn up the heat on the various Recall Whitmer activists to pack it in now,&#34; Wszolek urged on Twitter this week. &#34;They&#39;re not going to succeed, and they&#39;re strengthening her by the day. They knew this could happen. It is. Enough.&#34;
Michigan isn’t the only state with a fundraising carveout for governors facing recall petitions.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom of California – who’s facing a September recall election in the Golden State – has used loopholes in his state’s laws to bring in millions in fundraising for big bucks donors as he fights to keep his job.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
