
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
&#39;The Dana Loesch Show&#39; radio host Dana Loesch joins &#39;FOX News Primetime&#39; to discuss the Biden admin&#39;s handling of the crisis on the southern border
U.S. 
Homeland Security
 Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas will travel to two 
Texas
 border towns Thursday, according to reports.
While in El Paso and McAllen, Mayorkas plans to meet with local law enforcement, Homeland Security employees and 
immigration
 advocates about the nation&#39;s 
migrant crisis
, KFOX 14 in El Paso reported. 
Neither 
President Biden
 nor Vice President 
Kamala Harris
 are scheduled to accompany Mayorkas to the border. Biden put Harris in charge of the crisis last month and although she said in late March she would visit the border &#34;at some point&#34; no trip has been publicly scheduled.
Mayorkas&#39; visit also follows Texas Gov. Greg Abbott&#39;s call Wednesday for a San Antonio migrant housing facility 
to be shuttered amid allegations
 that some children living there have been sexually assaulted.
TEXAS GOV. ABBOTT BLAMES BIDEN AS ALLEGATIONS EMERGE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT AT CHILD MIGRANT FACILITY
Mayorkas took a hard line on border security while speaking with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) employees last week, according to the Washington Times. He said he would fight sanctuary cities that don’t comply with the agency and wants to see an increase in deportations for illegal crossings.

      Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas attends a Cabinet meeting with President Joe Biden in the East Room of the White House, Thursday, April 1, 2021, in Washington. (Associated Press)
      
He said he is also considering filling in &#34;gaps&#34; in the border wall despite the Biden administration halting construction of one of former President Trump’s signature undertakings, the 
Times 
reported. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Biden administration faces a 
continuing border crisis
 with a migrant surge that has led to images of migrant children packed at over-capacity facilities and families being released into the U.S.
This will be Mayorkas&#39; third trip to the area since he took office.
Fox News&#39; Evie Fordham contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
