
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News anchor Bret Baier offers analysis on that and other breaking news stories, on &#39;Your World&#39;.
Sen. Bernie Sanders
 of Vermont is calling the U.S. drone strike in 
Afghanistan 
that mistakenly killed seven children &#34;unacceptable.&#34;
The comments by Sanders, the progressive champion and runner up to now-
President Biden 
in the race for the 2020 Democratic nomination, comes in the wake of an acknowledgment by the Pentagon that the attack was a &#34;tragic mistake.&#34;
FOX NEWS POLL: 9 IN 10 SAY TALIBAN CONTROL OF AFGHANISTAN POSES THREAT TO U.S.
At the time of the August 29 attack, 
the Pentagon
 said the strike had targeted an Islamic State suicide bomber amid the U.S. led evacuation of Americans and Afghan allies at Kabul’s international airport, during the final days of the U.S. withdrawal from the warn torn Central Asian nation.
The head of U.S. Central Command, Marine Corps General Frank McKenzie, the head of the U.S. Central Command, said that at the time he was confident the drone strike took out averted an imminent threat to U.S. forces at the airport.
But reports of civilian causalities quickly emerged and U.S. military leaders later concluded that the strike killed 10 civilians, including seven children.
CLICK HERE FOR THE LATEST FOX NEWS REPORTING ON THE AFGHANISTAN EXIT
McKenzie told reporters on Friday that
 
&#34;our investigation now concludes that the strike was a tragic mistake.&#34;
The killing of the civilians in Kabul by a drone operated remotely from U.S. forces outside of Afghanistan is raising questions about President Biden’s ‘over the horizon’ capabilities of launching counter-terrorism strikes in Afghanistan from outside of the country.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Asked on 
CBS News&#39; &#34;Face the Nation
&#34; on Sunday if is comfortable with the Biden administration’s ‘over the horizon’ policy, Sanders said &#34;I certainly hope they understand what happened and make sure that never happens again. This is not only a human tragedy, it reflects on us before the entire world. It&#39;s unacceptable.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
