
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking today in entertainment.
Ella, meet Stella.
Ella Emhoff, the stepdaughter of Vice President 
Kamala Harris
, made her 
Met Gala debut
 in Adidas by Stella McCartney and Cartier jewels on Monday.
It’s a predictable turn for the 
recent graduate of The New School’s Parsons School of Design
, who was also 
signed to IMG Models
 in January after 
making a splash at President Biden’s inauguration
 with her quirky, offbeat style.
MET GALA 2021: A LOOK AT THE STARS&#39; RED CARPET OUTFITS

      Ella Emhoff and Julia Garner are seen in contrasting red and silver sheer ensembles.
      
(Photo by Arturo Holmes)
The 22-year-old daughter of Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff hit the red carpet with &#34;Ozark&#34; actress Julia Garner, looking like the human embodiment of fire and ice.
MET GALA 2021: A LOOK BACK AT SOME OF THE MOST EYE-CATCHING LOOKS
Emhoff wore a bejeweled red bodysuit with sheer, swirling panels paired with slouchy cherry-red trousers with a paper-bag waist; Garner sported a sheer, slinky silver gown, also by McCartney.

      Ella Emhoff attends The 2021 Met Gala Celebrating In America: A Lexicon Of Fashion at Metropolitan Museum of Art on September 13, 2021 in New York City. 
      
(Photo by Mike Coppola)
And Emhoff won’t have to worry about aching feet at the end of the long night.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Instead of sky-high heels, Emhoff — who also 
made the rounds at New York Fashion Week with boyfriend Sam Hine
 — wore matching scarlet kicks made with breezy netting.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
