
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Republican 
Gov. Kristi Noem 
of South Dakota is spending Friday evening at Mar-a-Lago, greeting donors and political allies during a fundraiser on her behalf at 
former President Trump
’s Palm Beach,
 Florida
 resort.
The event, which is being hosted by
 Donald Trump Jr. 
and his girlfriend and Trump adviser Kimberly Guilfoyle, is officially for Noem’s 2022 gubernatorial re-election campaign. 
DESANTIS AND NOEM ARE THE BREAKOUT STARS AT CPAC
But the event could also pay dividends down the road. Noem, who’s a major supporter of the former president, is believed to have national aspirations and pundits consider her a potential 2024 GOP White House hopeful if the former president decides against running.

      South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem speaks at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) Saturday, Feb. 27, 2021, in Orlando, Fla. (AP Photo/John Raoux)
      
Republican sources have also confirmed to Fox News that longtime Trump political adviser and aide 
Corey Lewandowski 
will host another fundraiser for Noem on Saturday evening on Florida’s southwest coast.
Lewandowski has advised and traveled with Noem over the past year or so. He accompanied Noem when she campaigned on behalf of Trump last October in New Hampshire, Lewandowski’s home state. And he shepherded her around the Republican National Committee’s Winter Meeting in Amelia Island, Florida in January – as well as at last weekend’s 
Conservative Political Action Conference
, the largest annual gathering of conservative activists and leaders, which is known by its acronym CPAC.
IF TRUMP DOESN&#39;T RUN, PENCE AND DESANTIS TOP 2024 GOP PRIMARY SURVEY
Noem finished second in a CPAC straw poll of a hypothetical 2024 GOP presidential nomination matchup, with Trump not on the ballot. Noem was at 11%, behind Florida
 Gov. Ron DeSantis,
 at 43%. Everyone else named in the straw poll finished in single digits.
The CPAC straw poll seemed to cement Noem’s status as a rising star of the right. She was one of the standout speakers during the four-day confab, espousing a pro-Trump message and highlighting her anti-lockdown and anti-mask policies amid the pandemic, which have enthralled conservatives.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
