
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Louisiana Senator John Kennedy discusses potential police reform from President Biden as crime spikes around the U.S.
President Biden
 is scheduled to host the family of 
George Floyd
 at the White House on Tuesday – though Congress missed Biden’s deadline of getting the federal 
police
 reform bill with Floyd’s namesake passed by the one-year anniversary of Floyd&#39;s killing by a 
Minneapolis
 officer.
The White House said the meeting would include Floyd&#39;s daughter Gianna Floyd, Gianna&#39;s mother Roxie Washington, sister Bridgett Floyd, brothers Philonise Floyd, Terrence Floyd and Rodney Floyd, and nephew Brandon Williams. Philonise Floyd&#39;s wife Kita will also attend.
&#34;He wanted this meeting to be private in order to have a real conversation and preserve that with the family,&#34; White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Monday. &#34;He has a genuine relationship with them. … He&#39;s eager to listen to their perspectives and hear what they have to say.&#34;
The George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, originally introduced last June, passed the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives 
in March
 by a 220-212 vote. Though championed by civil rights groups, the wide-sweeping bill has so far stalled in the 50-50 split Senate, as Democrats and Republicans have continued negotiations on various points of contention, including no-knock warrants and chokeholds. 
Biden, during his first address to a joint session of Congress on April 29, took the recent conviction of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin on murder and manslaughter charges in Floyd’s death as a green light to call on Congress to pass police reform in Floyd’s name by May 25.
&#34;My fellow Americans, we have to come together to rebuild trust between law enforcement and the people they serve, to root out systemic racism in our criminal justice system, and to enact police reform in George Floyd’s name that passed the House already,&#34; Biden said during his address. 
BIDEN PLANS TO MEET WITH GEORGE FLOYD&#39;S FAMILY ON ANNIVERSARY OF HIS MURDER
&#34;I know Republicans have their own ideas and are engaged in the very productive discussions with Democrats in the Senate,&#34; he added. &#34;We need to work together to find a consensus. But let’s get it done next month, by the first anniversary of George Floyd’s death.&#34;
White House press secretary Jen Psaki recognized Friday that it would be unlikely that Congress pass the federal police reform by Tuesday deadline but stressed that &#34;the negotiators, by all accounts, are continuing to make progress.&#34; 
&#34;They’re continuing to have good discussions, and that is a positive sign,&#34; she said. &#34;We are not going to slow our — slow our efforts to get this done, but we can also be transparent about the fact that it’s going to take a little bit more time — that sometimes that happens and that’s okay.
Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., who’s leading the GOP negotiations on the legislation, 
has said
 another issue under discussion is Section 1033, which involves government equipment from the military for local police. The bill also seeks to set limits on qualified immunity shielding police from civil lawsuits, creates a framework to prevent racial profiling and establishes a national registry on allegations of police misconduct.
Last July, Democrats in the Senate rejected a similar GOP-backed police reform bill introduced by Scott, arguing the proposed legislation did not go far enough to address racial inequality.
The George Floyd Memorial Foundation, a nonprofit founded by Floyd’s sister, Bridgett Floyd, is asking people to contact their federal representatives Monday as part of a &#34;day of action&#34; to urge them to pass the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act by the first anniversary of his death.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The foundation is hosting several events in Minneapolis this week, including two panels with the families and other activists Monday followed by a community festival and candlelight vigil Tuesday. 
Executive director Jacari Harris said the group has received donations from the Minneapolis Foundation, Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation and athletic shoe and apparel retailer Finish Line, among others. Despite large grants from corporations and other organizations, Harris said the average donation to the nonprofit was $47. Harris said the group has also funded an initiative in Fayetteville, N.C., where Floyd was born, to help reduce homelessness, a scholarship program for law school students and an internship program at Texas A&amp;M University, where Floyd went to school.
Fox News&#39; Thomas Barrabi and the Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Danielle Wallace is a Digital Reporter for Fox News and FOX Business. Follow her on Twitter at 
@danimwallace
. If you have a tip, you can email her at 
danielle.wallace@fox.com
.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
