
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking today in entertainment.
One of the Texas lawmakers who fled the state in order to avoid voting on a controversial election integrity bill confirmed that she also traveled to Portugal.
Rep. Jessica Gonzalez addressed the controversy for the first time Tuesday in a 
statement
 to The Dallas Morning News, confirming she traveled to Portugal to get married on Aug. 7 and didn’t address reports at the time due to privacy concerns.
TEXAS HOUSE SERGEANT-AT-ARMS VISITING HOMES LOOKING FOR DEMOCRATS WHO FLED: REPORT
&#34;We all say family comes first,&#34; Gonzalez, who married her fiancée Angela Hale, said in the statement. &#34;That value should apply to all families, including mine. I made the decision not to share where I was so that my wife and I could get married in privacy. I wanted us to have this special day, surrounded by a few of our friends and loved ones.&#34;
Gonzalez said she returned to the United States from Portugal on Aug. 11.
Gonzalez was criticized by Republicans in her state as well as on social media for traveling to Portugal while her Democratic colleagues were supposed to be in Texas voting on a Republican bill aimed at combating voter fraud.
At the time, Gonzales declined to confirm or deny whether reports of her traveling to Portugal and 
said
 via text message, &#34;No one has shown proof.&#34;
TEXAS DEMS WHO FLED STATE SUE GOV. ABBOTT FOR TRYING TO BRING THEM BACK: &#39;DISCOMFORT AND EMBARRASSMENT&#39;
&#34;I can’t apologize for getting married to the person I love, but I know there are some who, in good faith, have criticized the timing of this decision, and I am sorry if doing so now distracted for even one moment from our vital work to protect democracy,&#34; Gonzales said. &#34;I remain dedicated to fighting for the basic freedoms and unalienable rights of all Texans.&#34;
Gonzalez was one of the Texas Democrats who flew to Washington, D.C. last month in order to hold press conferences and meet with Democratic lawmakers about voting rights rather than vote during the Texas legislature’s special session.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
The group of Democrats was widely maligned by conservatives on social media for traveling to the nation’s capital on a private jet without masks, and 
at least six
 of the Democrats contracted the coronavirus.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
