
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Brexit party leader says he&#39;s &#39;never seen&#39; the lack of impact Biden had in the UK on &#39;The Ingraham Angle&#39;
Sensitive defense documents containing details about the British military have been found at a bus stop in 
England
, the BBC reported Sunday.
The classified papers included plans for a possible U.K. military presence in Afghanistan, as well as discussion about the potential 
Russian
 reaction to the British warship HMS Defender’s travel through waters off the Crimean coast last week, the BBC said.
The broadcaster said a member of the public who wanted to remain unnamed contacted it after finding the pile of documents — about 50 pages in all — in a soggy heap Tuesday behind a bus stop in Kent, southeast of 
London.
UK HEALTH SECRETARY MATT HANCOCK RESIGNS AFTER IMAGES SHOW HIM KISSING AIDE
The Ministry of Defense said an employee had reported the loss of the documents last week.
&#34;The department takes the security of information extremely seriously and an investigation has been launched,&#34; it said in a statement. &#34;It would be inappropriate to comment further.&#34;
The HMS Defender upset 
Russia’s
 military on Wednesday when it sailed south of the Crimean Peninsula in a Black Sea area that 
Moscow
 claims as territorial waters. Many nations, including the 
U.K
., do not accept Russia&#39;s 2014 annexation of Crimea from 
Ukraine
 and consider that area to be Ukrainian waters.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Russia
 said one of its warships fired warning shots in response to the destroyer’s intrusion, but Britain denied that account and said the warship was not in Russian waters. The Ministry of Defense said the ship was &#34;conducting innocent passage through Ukrainian territorial waters in accordance with international law.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
