
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
More than 20,000 National Guardsmen are deployed to Washington, D.C. as the FBI monitors possible threats; Florida Republican Rep. Michael Waltz reacts to the security measures being put into place.
Rep. Michael Waltz, R-Fla., took issue Friday with President-elect 
Joe Biden
&#39;s massive $1.9 trillion 
stimulus package proposal
 that aims to combat 
the coronavirus
 and attempt to pump up a U.S. 
economy
 severely battered by the worst 
pandemic
 to strike the globe in a century.
In an address to the nation Thursday, Biden spelled out his plans to speed the nation’s COVID vaccination program, boost coronavirus testing capacity to help reopen businesses and schools, provide for $1,400 stimulus checks for Americans and federal funds for state and local governments to use to avoid laying off police officers, firefighters and other first responders, as well as teachers and health workers. Biden labeled it his &#34;American Rescue Plan.&#34;
But Waltz said on &#34;
Fox &amp; Friends
&#34; that he views the measure as a &#34;bailout&#34; for Democrat-run states, such as New York and California, which did not handle the COVID-19 pandemic as effectively as Florida.
BIDEN UNVEILS MASSIVE RESCUE PACKAGE - AND AOC IMMEDIATELY HAS A PROBLEM WITH IT
REP.  MICHAEL WALTZ: This is a bailout package for blue states for their bad policies, for their lockdown policies. The best stimulus that we could have as a country is to allow the economy to smartly and safely open like we have done in Florida. Kids have been in school in person since last August. And we are not having a statewide meltdown. 
You can wear masks and space out and go to school because we take the approach of letting business owners and individuals and families make those smart decisions, rather than these mass policies from lockdowns and our numbers aren&#39;t any worse or aren&#39;t any different than California and New York, but, you know, now they have these massive state budget deficits. 
They have to fill that hole. States have to balance their budget, the federal government doesn&#39;t. So AOC and now Joe Biden are going to the big piggy bank in the sky that prints nonstop money. Here is the thing, our spending package that we passed was $1.5 trillion. 
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
We have now spent over six trillion and counting and bringing it full circle to the bigger picture, you know, the Chinese military, their command is counting on this country going bankrupt before they then make their big moves around the world. And every estimate I have seen has accelerated that between 2024 and 2026 now with this additional spending. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
