
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News correspondent Bryan Llenas has the latest from Brooklyn, N.Y. on &#39;The Story&#39;
It was the elephant in the Oval Office, but somehow, 
President Biden
 and 
Gov. Andrew Cuomo
 didn’t discuss 
his COVID-19 nursing home scandal
 when they met last week.
The controversy &#34;was not a focus of their conversation or a topic,&#34; 
White House
 press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters during her daily briefing Tuesday.
CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
The governor visited the White House after 
an explosive Thursday night report
 from The New York Post revealed that top Cuomo aide Melissa DeRosa admitted that the state concealed the number of nursing home deaths due to concerns that the numbers would &#34;be used against us&#34; by 
the Department of Justice
.
Psaki said Tuesday that the meeting with Biden and Cuomo, which included a handful of officials from other states and cities, focused on 
the president’s proposed $1.9 trillion COVID-19 stimulus bill
.

      President Joe Biden speaks during a meeting with a bipartisan group of mayors and governors to discuss a coronavirus relief package, in the Oval Office of the White House, Friday, Feb. 12, 2021. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
&#34;The focus of the meeting was on the president providing an update on his plans to help get the pandemic under control, to discuss with them the American Rescue Plan and, in a large group meeting, have a discussion about what the challenges were that were facing governors and mayors — you heard some of the mayors come out here. So no, that was not a focus of their conversation or a topic,&#34; Psaki said.
The usually press-courting New York governor 
hid from reporters
 during his Friday jaunt to D.C., unlike fellow Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, a Republican, who gave a press conference on the White House driveway.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
   
Cuomo has attempted to walk back DeRosa’s remarks by saying his administration only was stonewalling requests for data from state legislators while continuing to work on 
an Oct. 27 request for data
 from the Justice Department. Skeptics note that DeRosa’s remarks appear to indicate a broader stonewalling and that New York has not provided the feds with full data on nursing home deaths.
Cuomo said Monday that 
New York
 sent some information to the Justice Department on Jan. 8, but his office has not released that documentation.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
