
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Ben Domenech discusses COVID mandates and government control on &#39;Fox News Primetime.&#39;
The White House did not deny a report that the Biden administration is considering leveraging federal financial muscle to push institutions to require Americans get vaccinated.
&#34;As we always are, the administration is discussing a host of different measures we can continue to boost vaccinations across the country,&#34; a White House official told Fox News. &#34;Any reported ideas under consideration are in early conversations and pre-decisional. There are no imminent policy decisions as to preview at this time.&#34;
The statement comes after the 
Washington Post
 reported Thursday that the 
administration is considering
 withholding federal funds and using federal regulatory powers in a bid to push Americans to get vaccinated.
AMERICANS OPPOSE VACCINE PASSPORTS FOR RESTAURANTS
The plan could target institutions such as long-term-care facilities, cruise ships, and universities, hoping to reach many of the 90 million Americans who are eligible for the 
vaccine
 but have not yet received it.
One area the plan could focus on is restricting access to federal funds such as Medicare in a bid to persuade nursing homes and long-term-care facilities to require that their employees get vaccinated, the Post reported
While no decisions have been finalized on the plan, at least one outside lawyer in contact with the Biden administration has urged restraint in using federal powers.
The move could trigger backlash among some Americans, including in GOP strongholds that have high rates of vaccine hesitancy. 
The plan is being weighed amid a spike in 
COVID-19
 cases largely driven by the delta variant, which experts have warned is more easily transmittable than the original strain. The rolling seven-day average of new infections has risen to 95,000 as of Thursday, causing some experts to call on the federal government to use more of its powers.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;I think wisely using the federal spending power is absolutely right,&#34; said Lawrence Gostin, the head of Georgetown University’s O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law.
Michael Lee is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@UAMichaelLee
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
