
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News’ ‘Outnumbered’ panel reacts to The Lincoln Project facing calls from two former top officials to shut down over a growing list of scandals, including accusations the group ignored sexual harassment claims against co-founder John Weaver.
A former communications staffer for the anti-Trump Lincoln Project may have run afoul of campaign finance laws meant to prevent chatter between super PACs and campaigns, according to an ethics watchdog group. 
Keith Edwards worked as communications director for the Lincoln Project until his departure in November, when he took a position as senior digital advisor for the campaign of Sen. Jon Ossoff, D-Ga. 
Federal Elections Commission records show, however, that Edwards’ consulting firm, That&#39;s Good Media, was 
paid $20,000
 by the Lincoln Project while still receiving 
salary payments
 by Ossoff’s campaign.
Both payments came on Jan. 4, 2021 — one day before the Senate runoff that 
split the upper chamber
 50/50, FEC records show. 
That&#39;s Good Media 
received
 payments from the Lincoln Project from July 2020 to November 2020 before stopping in December, FEC records show. 
At that point in the electoral cycle, all eyes were on the two Georgia Senate seats for control of the upper chamber. Edwards was actively campaigning for Ossoff during this time.
Kendra Arnold, president of conservative ethics watchdog group Foundation for Accountability &amp; Civic Trust (FACT), told the 
Free Beacon
 that the payments could point towards illegal coordination between Ossoff’s campaign and the Lincoln Project.
&#34;When a super PAC has inside information from a vendor or employee of a candidate, any advertising the super PAC does on behalf of the candidate is an illegal in-kind contribution to the campaign,&#34; Arnold told the outlet.
&#34;In situations where an individual has ties to both a campaign and outside organization, it raises serious concerns of illegal coordination,&#34; Arnold added. 
Federal campaign staffers must wait a cooling off period of 120 days before they are allowed to work for an outside group that is running ads supporting their candidate, such as the Lincoln Project.
JOE BIDEN BUTCHERS JON OSSOFF’S NAME AT GEORGIA RALLY
The Lincoln Project is a vocal anti-Trump group that has gone into free fall since the election, amid accusations that the group turned a blind eye to sexual harassment by co-founder John Weaver.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Weaver allegedly 
harassed
 dozens of young, gay men online — including a 14-year-old — while promising them job opportunities and political clout.
The Lincoln Project has also come under 
scrutiny
 for allegedly shady financial arrangements, as well a work envirornment that former staffers 
described
 as &#34;toxic.&#34; 
Edwards did not immediately respond to Fox News&#39; request for comment.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
