
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Del Rio Sector Chief Patrol Agent on more than 20,900 unaccompanied minors are in U.S. custody.
Border Patrol agents
 arrested two convicted child sex offenders trying to come across the border in the past few days, the latest example of 
illegal immigrant felons
 trying to get back into the U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced on Monday that agents near Abrams, Texas picked up a group of 10 migrants who had crossed the border illegally. Included in the group was a Salvadoran man who had been arrested in Washington for the rape of a child and later convicted and sentenced to 34 months in prison and community service.
TEXAS REPUBLICANS RIP BIDEN AFTER BORDER PATROL CAPTURES CONVICTED SEX PREDATORS ILLEGALLY CROSSING BORDER
The migrant group he was traveling with included one unaccompanied child, CBP said in a release.
Meanwhile, in Mission, Texas, agents arrested a 49-year-old Salvadoran who had entered the U.S. illegally and had a previous conviction for sexual contact of a 9-year-old in New York City. He was sentenced in 2014 to a year in jail for second degree sexual abuse.
In a statement, CBP said both men are being &#34;processed accordingly.&#34; The men are the latest convicted sex offenders who have tried to enter the U.S. recently, as officials grapple with an overwhelming number of migrants trying to come through the southern border.
BORDER PATROL NABS 3 CONVICTED CHILD SEX OFFENDERS IN 2 DAYS, AMID MIGRANT SURGE
&#34;Even with the spread of the COVID-19 virus, human smugglers continue to try these brazen attempts with zero regard for the lives they endanger nor to the health of the citizens of our great nation,&#34; CBP said in a statement. &#34;The U.S. Border Patrol agents of the Rio Grande Valley Sector will continue to safeguard the nation and community against these criminal elements.&#34;
In March, 
CBP announced
 the arrest of multiple convicted &#34;sexual predators&#34; caught trying to enter illegally, including some with child sex convictions.
Last month, 
the agency announced
 that in a span of just two days it had picked up three convicted child sex offenders among groups of illegal immigrants. One had been charged with aggravated sexual battery of a victim under 13 and was later convicted in Virginia.
In all, CBP said that in April it 
encountered more
 than 178,000 migrants at the border, including thousands of unaccompanied children traveling in those groups.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Separately, officials have estimated that more than 1,000 migrants are getting past overwhelmed agents every day. Agents have also told Fox News that 
smugglers will often use
 groups of children to distract agents, so they can send adults through other parts of the border.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
