
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Acting Deputy DHS Secretary Ken Cuccinelli discusses preparations underway among federal and local agencies in Washington ahead of Biden’s inauguration.
President-elect Joe Biden is scheduled to take the oath of office at noon ET on Jan. 20, as stipulated by the Constitution, on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol building. 
But there will be several Inauguration Day events leading up to the 
swearing-in ceremony
 — as well as after. If you don&#39;t want to miss out on coverage, here&#39;s the schedule and what to expect.
9 a.m. ET:
 Coverage of Inauguration Day begins at 9 a.m. ET Wednesday on Fox News Channel. &#34;
America’s Newsroom
&#34; co-anchors Bill Hemmer and Dana Perino will lead coverage, along with other Fox News contributors. 
11 a.m. ET:
 Fox News Digital will stream inaugural proceedings live beginning at 11 a.m. ET on the website. Digital will also offer an 
up-to-the-minute live blog
 with all the latest updates. 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. ET:
 &#34;
Special Report
&#34; anchor Bret Baier along with Martha MacCallum, anchor and executive editor of &#34;
The Story
,&#34; will helm coverage through the ceremony, from 11 a.m. ET to 1 p.m.
3 p.m. to 5 p.m. ET: 
They&#39;ll also offer extended coverage from 3 to 5 p.m. ET. 
THESE PRESIDENTS DIDN&#39;T ATTEND THE INAUGURATIONS OF THEIR SUCCESSORS
During the course of Inauguration Day, FNC anchors and correspondents will be stationed throughout locations in Washington, D.C. White House correspondents Kristin Fisher and Peter Doocy will be covering the president-elect from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, while chief congressional correspondent Mike Emanuel, congressional correspondent Chad Pergram, and correspondent Jacqui Heinrich will report from the Capitol building.
National security correspondent Jennifer Griffin will cover the parade route along with correspondents Griff Jenkins, Mark Meredith, and Lucas Tomlinson.
Correspondent David Spunt will be stationed at Joint Base Andrews, while correspondents Kevin Corke, Rich Edson, Steve Harrigan, and Mike Tobin will cover protests in locations throughout the district.
WHO&#39;S ATTENDING BIDEN&#39;S INAUGURATION?
Federal law enforcement agencies are launching a massive security initiative as they brace for more violence after a 
mob of Trump supporters laid siege to the Capitol
 last week.
Still, the inauguration is set to proceed as scheduled, with several 
high-profile security precautions
 in place, including enhanced National Guard presence and ramped-up law enforcement by state and local officials. President Trump also declared a state of emergency in Washington, citing the &#34;emergency conditions&#34; of Biden&#39;s inauguration.
Despite the raised security, Biden said last week he is &#34;not afraid&#34; to take the oath of office outside, and he intends to carry on as planned. 
The inauguration’s theme is &#34;America United.&#34; All of Congress has been invited and offered one guest ticket. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Public access to the inauguration, which was already scaled back as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, will be limited. City officials are erecting a perimeter throughout downtown, putting up barriers around the White House, the National Mall and the Capitol. In order to travel through the perimeter, people will need to provide proof of essential purpose.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
