
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Deadly drone strike hits oil tanker off Oman. Former CIA Station Chief Dan Hoffman discusses the latest and the Biden administration&#39;s push to renegotiate the Iran Nuclear Deal.
Israeli
 Prime Minister Naftali Bennett arrived in 
Washington, D.C., 
on Tuesday night for his first diplomatic visit overseas since taking office. 
The prime minister and 
President Biden
 will discuss 
Iran
 during the two-day visit to the 
White House.
&#34;One thing is clear: the US &amp; #Israel have no better friends than each other,&#34; the Israel Embassy wrote on Twitter along with a video of the prime minister stepping off his plane. 
ISRAEL SAYS IT CARRIED OUT AIRSTRIKES ON HAMAS TARGETS AFTER BALLOON ATTACK
Bennett succeeded former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in June after Bennett put together a coalition government and ousted Netanyahu over corruption charges. 

      Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett speaks in Jerusalem, Aug. 18, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
Bennett was scheduled to meet Wednesday with senior White House officials, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, and with Biden on Thursday. 
The prime minister said in a statement that his conversation with Biden would likely focus on the Iran nuclear deal, the 
coronavirus 
pandemic and the international economy. 
Bennett has spoken out against the possibility of a new nuclear accord between Iran and world powers and says that any agreement must also put the brakes on Iran&#39;s regional aggression, referring to the country’s &#34;leapfrogging&#34; in the last two to three years. Recent months have seen a string of attacks on Israeli-connected shipping, believed to have been carried out by Iran.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Now is the time to halt the Iranians, to stop this thing,&#34; he promised his Cabinet earlier this week he would tell Biden. He called the nuclear deal &#34;expired and is not relevant, even to those who thought it was once relevant.&#34;
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
