
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Yuma, Arizona Mayor Douglas J. Nicholls joins &#39;The Ingraham Angle&#39; to discuss the situation
The Biden administration is considering housing unaccompanied migrant children in a military base in Virginia as officials scramble to deal with a 
dramatic surge in child migrants
 at the southern border.
Reuters
 first reported that the base in Fort Lee, near Richmond, is being considered as the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) acknowledges it must &#34;aggressively&#34; find solutions to the surge in numbers.
REPUBLICANS DEMAND HEARING ON SURGE OF UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN AT BORDER AS ADMINISTRATION DENIES CRISIS
Pentagon officials told Fox News that the formal request has not arrived from HHS but that the site is being considered and site surveys are underway by HHS officials.
HHS told Fox News that it is notifying officials that it will be conduct an assessment for &#34;potential use as a temporary influx care facility for [unaccompanied children] at some point in the future.&#34;
&#34;If selected, Fort Lee would remain unoccupied but available for use if HHS has an urgent need for additional shelter space in order to ensure that children are not kept in border patrol stations for longer than 72 hours,&#34; the agency said.
 The Biden administration recently opened an HHS facility for unaccompanied children in 
Carrizo Springs, Texas
. It separately is opening two facilities in Texas to process migrant families and children.
But it might not be enough. 
Axios
 reported this week that in the week ending March 1, the Border Patrol referred an average of 321 minors per day to HHS. It’s a dramatic increase from 47 at the beginning of January and an average of 203 in early February, the outlet reported.
REPUBLICANS WANT BRIEFING FROM MAYORKAS AFTER DHS CHIEF CLAIMS &#39;NO BORDER CRISIS&#39; 
The border has seen a dramatic surge in numbers coinciding with rollbacks of Trump-era policies like the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) and the reinstatement of &#34;catch-and-release,&#34; by which migrants are released into the U.S. to await their hearings. Separately, the administration and congressional Democrats are pushing pathways to citizenship for illegal immigrants.
Republicans have called on the administration to 
reinstate a national emergency
, while House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy has requested a meeting with President Biden over the growing crisis. 
HOUSE DEMS TO PUSH BILLS GIVING CITIZENSHIP TO SOME ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, EVEN AMID BORDER SURGE
But the administration has denied there is a crisis, with DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas this week describing the situation as a &#34;challenge&#34; as it seeks to &#34;replace the cruelty&#34; of the prior administration.
The Fort Lee base is home to the
 
U.S. Army’s Women&#39;s Museum and named after Confederate general Robert E. Lee.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
If the facility is used, it would not be the first time the U.S. military has been asked to help with a surge in migration at the border.
In 2019, the Pentagon 
announced
 it would build temporary shelters for 7,500 adult migrants on the southwest border for those facing deportation in a year that saw a migrant crisis in the spring and summer.
Fox News&#39; Peter Doocy contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
