
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
UFO expert Nick Pope reacts to the whistleblower interview on &#39;Tucker Carlson Tonight&#39;
A 
Pentagon
 watchdog is launching a probe into how the 
Department of Defense
 has addressed &#34;Unidentified Aerial Phenomena&#34; or UAP, after a string of 
UFO
 sightings in recent years that have been spotted by military aircraft. 
In a Monday memo to military and intelligence leaders, Randolph Stone, assistant inspector general for evaluations on space, intelligence, engineering and oversight, said the objective of the probe is to determine the extent to which the DoD has taken actions regarding Unidentified Aerial Phenomena (UAP).
&#34;We may revise the objective as the evaluation proceeds, and we will consider suggestions from management for additional or revised objectives,&#34; he added.
EX-PENTAGON UFO PROGRAM CHIEF OUTLINES &#39;COMPELLING&#39; THEORIES, &#39;UNIQUE&#39; VEHICLE CHARACTERISTICS
The Office of Inspector General typically investigates whistleblower complaints and allegations of wrongdoing, among other matters. 
It was not clear who decided to launch the probe or what investigators will specifically look for. 

      A Pentagon watchdog is launching a probe into the actions taken by the Department of Defense after a series of UFO sightings in recent years.
      
(Department of Defense)
The Pentagon created the 
Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon Task Force
 following several unexplained incidents observed by the military. It is tasked with detecting, analyzing and cataloging UAPs that could potentially pose a threat to 
U.S. national security
.
In an interview with the 
New York Post
, Luis Elizondo, the former head of the Pentagon&#39;s Advanced Aerospace Threat Identification Program, recently raised the possibility that so-called UFOs are actually &#34;adversarial foreign technology that for several decades now has managed to leapfrog us.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Monday&#39;s announcement comes as Congress awaits a report from the Pentagon and U.S. intelligence agencies about the presence of UFOs. Some government officials have accused the military and spy agencies of blocking or ignoring efforts to catalog instances of UAP, 
Politico
 reported. 
Last year, the Defense Department released 
three videos of Navy pilots encountering UFOs
 in 2004 and 2015. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
