
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Stratis Morfogen, director of operations of Brooklyn Chop House, argues crime has been a consequence of businesses being locked down in New York City.
Gov. Andrew Cuomo 
repeatedly huddled with lawyers in his Manhattan office this week to get ready for his grilling this weekend over allegations he sexually harassed current and former female aides, according to a report Friday.
Cuomo spent several days preparing to be questioned Saturday by outside lawyers hired by state Attorney General Letitia James, the Albany Times Union said.
The three-term 
Democrat
 is expected to be placed under oath prior to giving answers, the Times Union said, citing unidentified sources.
That move would expose Cuomo to potential perjury charges were he to make any intentionally false statements.
ZELDIN OUTPACES CUOMO IN NY GUBERNATORIAL FUNDRAISING FIGHT
Details of the high-stakes showdown in Albany remained unclear, including where and when it will take place and whether there’s any time limit on the questioning.
James hired former 
Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Joon Kim and leading employment-discrimination lawyer Anne Clark to conduct the independent investigation as part of an agreement with 
Cuomo’s
 office.
James is expected to issue a report on the probe’s findings before the end of the summer, The New York Times reported Thursday.
In addition to the AG’s investigation, federal authorities are probing 
Cuomo’s
 handling of nursing homes during the 
COVID-19 pandemic
 — including his administration’s admitted coverup of the total number of resident deaths — as well the governor’s $5.1 million deal for his coronavirus memoir.
The state Assembly’s Judiciary Committee is also conducting a wide-ranging impeachment investigation and last month unanimously voted to begin issuing subpoenas for witnesses to be questioned under oath.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
When asked to comment on the Times Union report, 
Cuomo
 spokesman Rich Azzopardi reissued a Thursday statement that said, &#34;We have said repeatedly that the governor doesn’t want to comment on this review until he has cooperated, but the continued leaks are more evidence of the transparent political motivation of the Attorney General’s review.&#34;
Cuomo — who is raising money for an expected re-election bid next year — has repeatedly denied any misconduct.
Click 
here
 to read more of the 
New York Post.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
