
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., argues on ‘Fox and Friends’ that President Biden’s policies have encouraged migrants to illegally cross the border.
FIRST ON FOX
: House Republican Whip Steve Scalise on Tuesday wrote to 
Homeland Security
 Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, accusing the Biden administration of exempting illegal immigrants from COVID-19 restrictions – while citing testimony from Dr. Anthony Fauci to make his case.
&#34;As a nation we are placing burdensome public health restrictions on American citizens while those who enter our country illegally are permitted to flow into American towns and cities without any such restrictions,&#34; Scalise, R-La., wrote to Mayorkas. &#34;This is jeopardizing the health of Americans and threatens to prolong the COVID-19 pandemic. It appears that the Biden administration is exempting illegal immigrants from the very rules that American citizens are forced to follow.&#34;
Rep. Scalise letter to DHS
 by 
Fox News
 on Scribd
In the letter, Scalise notes that current CDC guidance is that everyone wear a mask in public and keep a social distance, but points to overcrowded migrant facilities in places like Donna, Texas, where images emerged of migrants packed together in overcrowded facilities.
He cited testimony from Fauci at a 
recent hearing
, where Scalise had asked Fauci if he would find it concerning if a restaurant was at 250% capacity, like some of the migrant facilities.
&#34;It would be a major concern, yes,&#34; Fauci replied.
Scalise goes on to cite a contrast between CDC guidance that says international travelers are required to have a negative COVID-19 test before entering from certain countries with high transmission and low vaccination rates, and how illegal immigrants are treated from those countries. He also cites reports of how some illegal immigrants are being released without a COVID test – although Mayorkas 
has since said
 that, while migrants have been released without tests in the past, that has now been &#34;addressed.&#34;
REPS ROY, HERRELL MOVE TO FORCE HOUSE VOTE ON EXTENDING TRUMP-ERA BORDER RESTRICTIONS
&#34;While American citizens are required&#39; to have a negative COVID-19 test prior to traveling to the U.S., illegal immigrants are not,&#34; Scalise writes. &#34;This is a new level of hypocrisy from the Biden administration.&#34;
DHS says it is currently using a partnership model, which involves working with local community organizations and authorities to ensure all migrants are tested and, if necessary, isolated. FEMA has offered to reimburse 100% of the costs.
DHS policy is to have single adults tested in ICE custody, while unaccompanied children are tested prior to transfer to Health and Human Services (HHS) and again at HHS facilities. Family units, meanwhile, are tested through the community-based system.
Scalise requests a staff-level briefing, as well as assurances from DHS that it will test every individual prior to release, make migrants wear masks in custody, and plan to make facilities comply with social distancing – as well as the number of migrants released from custody.
BIDEN DESCRIBES BORDER SURGE AS A &#39;CRISIS&#39; AS HE DEFENDS REFUGEE MOVES
The letter comes as Republicans continue to 
pile pressure
 on the Biden administration for its handling of the crisis at the southern border, which they say has been fueled by the administration’s decision to roll back a number of Trump-era border protections.
The administration has blamed the Trump administration’s ending of legal pathways to asylum, although it has conceded that the numbers are &#34;overwhelming&#34; and has been scrambling to open more facilities – particularly for child migrants, where there has been a historic influx.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden on Saturday 
described the situation
 as a &#34;crisis,&#34; but the White House issued a clarification on Monday, saying he was referring to the situation in Central America rather than at the border itself.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
