
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
California small business owner Angela Marsden responds to major companies financially backing Gov. Gavin Newsom in the recall election
California
 Republican gubernatorial candidate Major Williams believes California’s ability to tackle rising 
crime
 will have deep implications for the rest of the country. 
&#34;(California) is the incubator and then it’s going to other places as well,&#34; Williams told Fox News in a Wednesday interview. &#34;So, we kind of have to nip it in the bud right here.&#34; 

      FILE: Major Williams, a candidate for a California Governor, visits with people protesting coronavirus (COVID-19) salon closures by California Governor Gavin Newsom.
      
(Orange County Register via Getty Images)
Williams, a Republican vying to replace 
Gov. Gavin Newsom
 in a recall election, said he also supports the recall campaign against Los Angeles Country District Attorney George Gascón. 
A former assistant chief of police with the 
Los Angeles Police Department
 and former San Francisco Attorney, Gascón has been accused by crime victims of creating a revolving door for criminals where they are not fully held accountable for their offenses. 

      Incoming Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascon is sworn in as his wife Fabiola Kramsky holds a copy of the Constitution during a mostly-virtual ceremony in downtown Los Angeles Monday, Dec. 7, 2020. 
      
(AP)
Williams said the ability of criminals to commit petty crimes knowing that they likely won’t face serious punishment is a &#34;red flag if you want to see a rise in crime in a particular place.&#34; 
&#34;As a candidate (for governor), I am someone who is actively supporting the recall of the D.A. when it comes to some of the leniency that he has on … crime,&#34; Williams said. &#34;It sends a message to the entire state as well, because California is a trailblazer and trendsetter when it comes to policy, the things that we do.&#34; 
CALIFORNIA GOV. NEWSOM GETS SALARY BOOST AMID RECALL. CHALLENGERS SAY HE SHOULD REJECT IT. 
Williams said he believes the state must balance a tough-on-crime approach while ensuring that it does not disproportionately affect minority communities. 
&#34;[T]here have been unjust sentences that have happened as well, which is why I care so much about reform when those individuals get out so they have an opportunity to thrive in our society moving forward,&#34; Williams said. 
Williams, an entrepreneur and founder of Major Kicks for Kids, was the first Republican to announce his candidacy for governor. Businessman John Cox, whom Newsom defeated in 2018, former San Diego Mayor 
Kevin Faulconer
, and 1976 Olympic decathlon champion and TV personality 
Caitlyn Jenner
 have since entered the fray. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Newsom faces a recall election later this year. Organizers, upset over the governor’s handling of the pandemic gathered and validated enough signatures to qualify for a ballot in April.
Fox News’ Louis Casiano contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
