
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News&#39; Todd Piro reports on new details in the Hunter Biden laptop scandal.
President Biden
 and his allies raked in campaign cash from a top 
Russia
 lobbyist in 2020, just months before his administration’s decision to scrap sanctions on a controversial firm building a Russian oil pipeline to Germany.
Richard Burt, a managing partner at McLarty Associates and a former U.S. ambassador to Germany during the Reagan administration, ponied up $4,000 for 
Joe Biden
 in October 2020 and dropped another $10,000 in the lefty-aligned political action committee Unite The County in March 2020, FEC records show.
In addition to violating 
Biden’s
 own campaign pledge not to take lobbyist cash, the money from Burt is particularly noteworthy as he is currently directly engaged in lobbying activities for Nord Stream 2 AG.
&#34;When Richard Burt donated to 
Biden 
Victory Fund, he failed to acknowledge that he was a registered foreign agent and was therefore ineligible to contribute,&#34; a Democratic National Committee spokesman told The Post. &#34;Because Burt also listed a different employer than on his [Foreign Agents Registration Act] registration, he was not flagged during our vetting process.&#34;

      Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin (R) shakes hands with U.S. Vice President Joe Biden during their meeting in Moscow March 10, 2011. Biden is on the second day of an official visit meeting top officials in the Russian capital.  REUTERS/Alexander Natruskin (RUSSIA - Tags: POLITICS)
      
(Reuters)
KAMALA HARRIS HAS GONE 66 DAYS WITHOUT A NEWS CONFERENCE SINCE BEING TAPPED FOR BORDER CRISIS ROLE
The 
DNC
 said it returned the cash on Thursday after The Post’s inquiry.
The Switzerland-based Nord Stream 2 — controlled by an ex-East German stasi officer and close ally of 
Vladimir Putin 
— is currently engaging in sanctionable activity, according to the State Department. 
Team Biden
 raised eyebrows, however, after declining to enforce sanctions, citing U.S. national interests, Axios reported.
Critics worry the project will allow 
Russia
 dangerous influence over European energy supplies and increase their overall political leverage on the continent.
To build the pipeline, Nord Stream 2 has partnered with five European energy companies, ENGIE, OMV, Shell, Uniper and Wintershall Dea. Lobbying disclosure forms show that Burt is currently advocating on behalf of all five.
&#34;To protect and further the company’s interests in the debate over natural gas as an element of European energy security and advise on 
Russia 
sanctions issues,&#34; reads Burt’s disclosure for OMV under the area for &#34;specific lobbying issues.&#34; The other four offer similar language.
&#34;Reading between the lines you can clearly see what that lobbying looks like,&#34; Anna Massoglia, an investigative researcher at the Center for Responsive Politics told The Post. &#34;While it’s not evidence of anything illegal, it’s just something that is evidence of how influence works in Washington.&#34;
DR. BEN CARSON: SADDEST PART OF BDEN CAUSING MASSIVE INFLATION IS EFFECT ON EVERYTHING
Burt, a longtime 
GOP
 donor before switching sides in 2019, has long been a fixture in D.C. foreign policy circles. &#34;He carries an air of great knowledge and wisdom and experience, and he’s impressive when you meet him,&#34; a former 
Trump
 official who dealt with Burt told The Post.
Burt played an early role in advising the Trump campaign’s foreign policy positions, and even helped the billionaire candidate craft his first foreign policy speech — something critics immediately jumped on as proof of untoward 
Russia
 connections.
&#34;The revelation of Burt’s lobbying activity raises new questions about Russian influence in 
Trump’s campaign,
&#34; blared Politico, which extensively cited Burt’s work on Nord Stream 2 — a project Trump went on to oppose as president.
&#34;The sum total of Trump’s words and actions has only encouraged Russian meddling in our elections,&#34; said California Rep. Adam Schiff in August 2020. &#34;Insecure, unscrupulous and transactional, Trump is 
Putin’s
 ideal American president.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GERT THE FOX NEWS APP
In March, 2019, Burt gave a maximum $2,800 donation to Schiff shortly after the congressman took the reins of the powerful House Intelligence Committee.
Schiff has not commented publicly on the Biden Nord Stream 2 decision.
Both Burt and reps for Schiff did not respond to request for comment from The Post.
Click 
here
 to read more of the 
New York Post.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
