
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
 Secretary 
Marcia Fudge
 violated the 
Hatch Act 
while discussing the 2022 
Senate 
race in 
Ohio
 in March, the Office of Special Counsel, an independent federal investigative agency reportedly determined. 
The Hatch Act prohibits federal employees from participating in political activity. 
When asked about the upcoming Ohio Senate race during a March White House briefing, Fudge mentioned that U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, and Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley were considering running and said, &#34;they’re both friends. I think we have a good shot at it. I know people have written off Ohio. I haven’t written off Ohio. I believe we can win the Senate race,&#34; Politico reported. 
Earlier she declined to answer a reporter who asked about whom she thought should replace her open congressional seat in the state. 
NY SHERIFF VIOLATED HATCH ACT BY FLYING PRO-TRUMP FLAG ON SUMMER BOAT PARADE: US AGENCY

      Housing and Urban Development Secretary Marcia Fudge speaks during a news conference in Hoboken, N.J., Thursday, May 6, 2021. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig)
      
Fudge’s violation appears to be the first for the 
Biden 
administration, according to Politico. 
Americans for Public Trust, a conservative watchdog group, filed a complaint over her comments, asking the Office of Special Counsel to investigate. 
The day after Fudge weighed in on the Senate race, she issued a statement acknowledging she shouldn’t have answered the question. &#34;I take these things seriously and I want to assure the American people that I am focused on meeting the needs of our country,&#34; she said, according to Politico. 
Ana Galindo-Marrone, chief of OSC’s Hatch Act unit, said in a letter to Americans for Public Trust the agency had issued a warning to Fudge and counseled her about the violation and had closed the matter since she showed remorse in her statement, 
Politico 
reported. 
&#34;Please note that Secretary Fudge has been advised that if in the future she engages in prohibited political activity we will consider such activity to be a willful and knowing violation of the law that could result in further action,&#34; Galindo-Marrone wrote. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Several 
Trump 
administration officials also violated the act during his term, including former senior counselor to the president Kellyanne Conway and former trade adviser Peter Navarro. No Trump officials faced serious consequences. 
HUD did not immediately return Fox News&#39; after-hours request for comment. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
