
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Georgia Congressman Doug Collins weighs in on backlash by Democrats against the Peach State&#39;s election laws.
First Lady
 Dr. Jill Biden was in the social media spotlight on Wednesday after mispronouncing a phrase in Spanish, but it appears she and 
President Biden
 may have taken the same language classes.
Before Joe Biden was sworn in as president, he came under scrutiny for using a bit of &#34;Spanglish&#34; during his 
first post-election, in-person meeting
 with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.
The then-president elect was caught on camera in November telling the pair &#34;in my Oval Office, mi casa, you casa,&#34; when it appears he meant to say &#34;mi casa es su casa,&#34; which means my house is your house.
The flub took place at an early meeting about combating the pandemic.
JILL BIDEN MOCKED FOR BOTCHED SPANISH ATTEMPT
As 
previously reported by Fox News
, it was Jill Biden this week who mispronounced the phrase ¡Sí Se Puede!&#34; ‒ which translates to &#34;Yes we can&#34; in Spanish ‒ during a speech in Delano, California honoring the birthday of labor leader and civil rights icon César Chávez.
The phrase was popularized by Chávez and his United Farm Workers co-founder Dolores Huerta, and was used as a motto by the group in the 
1970s
. It has also been adopted by other activist groups.
Jill Biden did, however, pronounce the phrase correctly elsewhere in her speech.
BIDEN TELLS PELOSI AND SCHUMER ‘MI CASA, YOU CASA’
Politicians have been encouraged to learn Spanish, which is the second most common language in the U.S.
DuoLingo announced in February that it had partnered with Voto Latino to urge newly-elected officials to continue efforts to learn Spanish beyond the campaign trail.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
However, there are many instances of misunderstanding translations as politicians attempt to learn the language.
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, for example, found himself in hot water after he quoted revolutionary leader Che Guevara during his unsuccessful campaign for the presidency. He used the phrase &#34;hasta la victoria, siempre,&#34; which means &#34;until victory, always&#34; and is associated with Guevara.
De Blasio was also criticized for attempting to nickname President Donald Trump 
#ConDon
, which can translate to condom in Spanish.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
