
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
CEO John Matze joins &#39;Hannity&#39; to give an update on what&#39;s next for the social media platform
Lawmakers are asking the 
FBI
 to investigate the role free-speech app Parler – a social media platform favored by conservatives and 
President Donald Trump’s
 supporters – played in the Capitol Hill riots, though planning and discussions also occurred on other popular social media platforms.
In a letter to FBI director Christopher Wray, House Oversight Committee Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., requested a &#34;
robust examination of the role that the social media site Parler played in the assault
 [on the Capitol],&#34; including its potential use in planning and incitement, as a repository for evidence and a potential conduit for foreign governments to finance civil unrest. 
Google and Apple removed Parler from their app stores shortly after the siege on Capitol Hill over its failure to moderate &#34;egregious content,&#34; including violent threats made against lawmakers’ lives and intent to bring weapons to the Jan. 6 riot.
Shortly after, Amazon announced it would no longer host Parler on Amazon Web Services, effectively taking it offline altogether.
Other social media platforms, like Facebook and Twitter, actively seek to take down and moderate content deemed inappropriate, 
like violent acts amid protests
.
ALEX BERENSON: SHUTDOWN OF PARLER IS BIG TECH&#39;S &#39;MOST DANGEROUS&#39; MOVE YET 
However, there were still discussions about the riot occurring on those platforms. Organizers for the pro-Trump march on Washington had open discussions on Facebook and Instagram using the hashtags #StopTheSteal and #FightForTrump.
Media Matters
 reported on Jan. 5 that discussions about bringing weapons to D.C. were taking place in private Facebook groups.
As noted by 
The Washington Post
, Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg downplayed Facebook’s role in the riots during an interview Reuters – largely laying blame on Parler.
&#34;I think these events were largely organized on platforms that don’t have our abilities to stop hate, don’t have our standards and don’t have our transparency,&#34; Sandberg said. She did note, however, that enforcement is never perfect.
After Parler went dark, conspiracy theorists also reportedly took their protest discussions elsewhere leading up to President Biden’s Inauguration Day.
According to 
USA Today
, Facebook said calls for violence and the risk of violence – which it has been tracking – have been high ever since Jan. 6.
A Facebook spokesperson did not immediately return Fox News’ request for comment.
A spokesperson for Rep. Maloney did not return Fox News’ request for comment as to whether Facebook would be included in the comprehensive investigation.
In a statement regarding the FBI probe, a Parler spokesperson said the company will continue to cooperate with law enforcement efforts.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
A U.S. District Court in Seattle on Thursday denied Parler’s request for an emergency injunction against Amazon while the larger complaint is considered.
The court said Parler failed to demonstrate that it would prevail in the ultimate ruling or that the public interests would be better served by granting the injunction.
Parler, which was founded in 2018, was &#34;built upon a foundation of respect for privacy and personal data, free speech, free markets, and ethical, transparent corporate policy.&#34;
Some conservatives – like Sens. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Rand Paul, R-Ky. – began turning to the platform this year after becoming frustrated with content moderation on the major platforms.
The platform, however, had also become popular among conspiracy theorists and elements of the far-right.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
