
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The campaign arm for 
House Republicans
 is adding 10 
Democratic
 lawmakers to its list of 47 seats held by what it considers to be vulnerable Democrats 
in the chamber
 that it sees as potential pickup opportunities for the GOP in the 
2022 midterm elections
.
National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) chair 
Rep. Tom Emmer
, in unveiling the expanded list Tuesday, touted that &#34;Republicans are on offense all across the country.&#34;
HOUSE GOP ELECTION CHAIR SPOTLIGHTS SURGE IN REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES 
Emmer, R-Minn., argued that &#34;every House Democrat is facing an uphill battle having to defend their toxic socialist agenda that prioritizes trillion-dollar tax hikes on the middle class, opens our borders, closes our schools and defunds the police.&#34;
The announcement comes a week after the 
U.S. Census Bureau
 released initial numbers from the 2020 Census. According to the once-in-a-decade congressional apportionment, GOP-controlled states, such as Texas and Florida, are among the states gaining House seats, while California, New York and Illinois, where Democrats control the levers of government, are among the states losing seats.
Census data to be released later this year will determine the redistricting process, which is expected to generally favor Republicans over Democrats.

      The U.S. Capitol Dome is silhouetted against the rising sun, Friday, April 30, 2021 in Washington. (AP Photo/J. David Ake)
      
(AP Photo/J. David Ake)
All 10 new targets come from states that are losing a congressional seat.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The new Democrats being spotlighted are Reps. Ami Bera (CA-07), Jim Costa (CA-16) and Raul Ruiz (CA-36) of California, Marie Newman of Illinois (IL-03), Dan Kildee of Minnesota (MI-05), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Joe Morelle (NY-25) and Brian Higgins (NY-26) of New York and Chrissy Houlahan of Pennsylvania.
The NRCC in February put out its 
original list of 47 House Democrats
 that it considers vulnerable.
The GOP controlled the House for eight years before losing the majority in the chamber in the 2018 midterms amid a wave by 
House Democrats
. But Republicans defied expectations and took a big bite out of the Democrats&#39; majority in November&#39;s elections and currently only need to flip five seats in 2022 to regain control of the chamber.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
