
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Leading 
Democratic
 Senate candidates in three key races where their party aims to flip a red seat blue in the 2022 
midterm elections
 are hauling in 
campaign cash
 as they spotlight their opposition to the legislative 
filibuster
, which many in their party are hoping to scrap to advance key policy initiatives.
Rep. Val Demings
 of 
Florida
, who’s challenging Republican 
Sen. Marco Rubio
 in next year&#39;s election, hauled in $4.6 million during the April-June second quarter of fundraising, topping the GOP incumbent by roughly $600,000 the past three months.
DEMINGS EDGES OUT RUBIO SO FAR IN FLORIDA SENATE FUNDRAISING BATTLE
Some of the campaign cash Demings brought in came from her late-June spotlight of her opposition to the filibuster, which 
the GOP
 is using to stymie 
President Biden
 and congressional 
Democrats
 from passing much of their agenda.
A month ago the Republicans – using the filibuster – successfully downed the congressional Democrats&#39; sweeping election and campaign finance reform bill, which was a top item on their agenda.
Demings wrote an opinion piece in USA Today and went up with scores of Facebook ads advocating for the elimination of the filibuster.

      Democratic Senate candidate Rep. Val Demings of Florida runs ads on Facebook spotlighting her support for scrapping the legislative filibuster.
      
The filibuster, a longstanding 
Senate
 tradition requiring 60 votes in the 100-member chamber to advance a bill, effectively allows the minority party to block certain legislation. The Senate is currently evenly split 50/50 between the two parties, with the Democrats holding a razor-thin majority due to the tiebreaking vote of 
Vice President Kamala Harris
 through her constitutional role as president of the Senate.
But the Democrats are nowhere close to obtaining the 60 votes needed to quash a filibuster. They don’t even have the simple majority needed to eliminate the legislative filibuster rule. Two moderate Democrats – 
Sen. Kyrsten Sinema
 of Arizona and 
Sen. Joe Manchin
 of West Virginia – are opposed to the push by lawmakers from the left of their party to scrap the filibuster.
PROGRESSIVES FUME AFTER GOP USES FILIBUSTER IN SENATE TO BLOCK DEMOCRATS SWEEPING ELECTION REFORM BILL
Longtime 
Rep. Tim Ryan
 of 
Ohio
, the leading contender for the Democratic nomination in 2022 in the race to succeed retiring GOP Sen. Rob Portman, was opposed to eliminating the filibuster when the Democrats were in the chamber’s minority.
But late last month he also went up with Facebook ads, saying he was 
&#34;
PISSED&#34; and that &#34;We Must Get Rid Of The Senate Filibuster.&#34;
Ryan raised roughly $2.3 million the past three months, nearly doubling his fundraising haul from the first quarter of 2021.

      Democratic Senate candidate Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio runs ads on Facebook spotlighting his support to scrap the legislative filibuster.
      
To Ohio’s east, in 
Pennsylvania
, Lt. Gov. 
John Fetterman
 has also been highlighting his push to scrap the filibuster. 
Fetterman, the most well-known of the Democrats running in the race to succeed retiring Republican Sen. Pat Toomey, went up with Facebook ads last month spotlighting Manchin’s opposition to ending the filibuster. The candidate’s raised roughly $6.5 million so far this year as he campaigns for the Senate.
Fundraising off the push to eliminate the filibuster seems like a no-brainer for some Democratic Senate candidates, especially in blue and purple states, as it rallies the base and helps bring in campaign cash.
But Republicans say there could be a downside come next year’s general elections.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Scrapping the filibuster is a great issue to rally their liberal base in a primary and raise money. But it becomes a liability in a general election,&#34; veteran Republican strategist Ryan Williams told Fox News.
&#34;They&#39;ve painted themselves into a partisan corner. These Democrats are competing for seats that are currently held by Republicans, and in order to win support they&#39;re going to have to look like bipartisan consensus builders,&#34; Ryan argued. &#34;By campaigning against the filibuster, they’re dropping any pretense of bipartisanship and looking like rigid partisans who will have difficulty attracting the independent votes they need to win.&#34; 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
