
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Trump voters discuss the next generation of Republican leadership on &#39;The Story&#39;
Former 
President Trump
 will make his first major public appearance at the Conservative Political Action Conference (
CPAC
) conference later this month, Fox News has learned.
Traditionally held outside of Washington, D.C., the 2021 CPAC conference will kick off in Orlando, Fla., on Thursday. 
2021 CPAC TO BE HELD IN PERSON IN FLORIDA
Trump is expected to address the conference on Sunday, Feb. 28, two sources told Fox News.

      President Donald Trump hugs the American flag as he arrives to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference, CPAC 2019, in Oxon Hill, Md., on March 2, 2019. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
      
Trump will be talking about the future of the Republican Party and the conservative movement. Also, look for the 45th president to take on President Biden’s &#34;disastrous amnesty and border policies,&#34; according to a source familiar with Trump&#39;s speech. 
Trump has stayed relatively quiet since leaving the White House on Jan. 20 for his Mar-a-lago resort in Florida and after Twitter banned him from the social media platform after the Jan. 6 Capitol riot.
But Trump has indicated he wants to stay politically active and told his supporters after his impeachment acquittal the MAGA movement is still going strong.
TRUMP CELEBRATES ACQUITTAL IN SENATE TRIAL, FORESHADOWS POLITICAL FUTURE: &#39;MUCH TO SHARE&#39;
&#34;Our historic, patriotic and beautiful movement to Make America Great Again (MAGA) has only just begun,&#34; he 
said in a statement
 last week. &#34;In the months ahead I have much to share with you, and I look forward to continuing our incredible journey together to achieve American greatness for all of our people. There has never been anything like it!&#34;
Fox News was 
first to report
 in December that CPAC will be held at the Hyatt Regency in 
Orlando, Fla
., from Feb. 25-28.
The conference, first launched in 1974, has always been held either in or around Washington, D.C. For the past eight years, the Gaylord National Resort &amp; Convention Center in Maryland, just outside of the District of Columbia, has been CPAC&#39;s home. But the massive resort had remained closed amid the coronavirus pandemic.
TRUMP MEETS WITH MCCARTHY IN FLORIDA TO PLAN GOP HOUSE TAKEOVER IN 2022
Organizers told Fox News in December that the event, which last year attracted nearly 20,000 people over its four days, will be held mostly indoors, with plenty of virtual components, at the Hyatt Regency, a 1,641-room hotel that is connected to the Orange County, Fla., convention center.
Fox News&#39; Tyler Olson and Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
