
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
In a Friday letter to 
President Biden
, U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., said that handing over the 
names
 of American citizens and Afghan allies to the Taliban was gifting them a &#34;powerful tool in their ongoing ‘revenge killings&#39;.&#34;
&#34;Regardless of the assurances your administration may have received from the Taliban, your decision to believe them was nothing less than irresponsible and naïve,&#34; he said. 
BAFFLED REPORTERS TORCH BIDEN FOR SHARING LIST OF US CITIZENS AND ALLIES WITH TALIBAN: &#39;THIS IS INSANITY&#39;
Rubio’s 
letter
 followed confirmation by authorities Thursday that the U.S. provided the identities of Americans and at-risk Afghans so they could gain access past Taliban checkpoints outside the Kabul airport.   
&#34;This decision blatantly ignored credible reports that the Taliban was directly targeting Afghan individuals that supported American troops,&#34; he said.
The senator pointed to the abduction and execution of comedian Khasha Zwan by the Taliban nearly a month prior to the collapse of Afghanistan. 
The U.S. Embassy further reported the suspected revenge killings of 40 individuals in early August.
Just two days after the Taliban took over Kabul and mass evacuations began, Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said that amnesty would be granted to Afghan citizens who were loyal to the U.S. during the 20-year long War in Afghanistan. 
Mujahid said Afghans who wanted to evacuate would be allowed to do so and Taliban insurgents would not go door-to-door to hunt them down.
But within a week, reports surfaced of renewed attacks and some individuals have been barred from gaining access to the airport. 
US SHARING INTEL WITH THE TALIBAN, OFFICIAL CONFIRMS
Mujahid additionally said this week that Afghan nationals will 
no longer
 be allowed to leave the country after U.S. forces depart on Aug. 31. 
&#34;At the height of the evacuation, personnel of the U.S. Embassy in Kabul destroyed passports and visa applications in their possession precisely so that they would not be used by the Taliban,&#34; Rubio pointed out. &#34;This action has endangered Americans, and our allies, who have been unable to leave Afghanistan and seriously calls into question your administration’s decision making.&#34;
The senator said he will refuse the appointment of any nominee for a national security position until the president gives answers on who provided the Taliban with names.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Rubio asked whether the administration has warned the individuals whose names were on the list that they are now facing &#34;significant personal threat&#34; and questioned whether they have all been &#34;safely evacuated.&#34;
Additionally, he asked if the president would commit to ensuring that those individuals are rescued if they have not yet been evacuated. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
