
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
House Minority Whip Steve Scalise argues that people pushing for police defunding will &#39;undermine the work of good cops.&#39;
The 
Justice Department
&#39;s new investigation into the Minneapolis 
Police
 Department will look into the ongoing practices and examine possible legal violations, reminiscent of past probes under the Obama administration.
Attorney General Merrick Garland announced the investigation on Wednesday in the aftermath of Derek Chauvin&#39;s murder conviction for George Floyd&#39;s death. He mentioned possible remedies that have been used in previous cases involving Baltimore and Ferguson, Missouri.
JURY FINDS CHAUVIN GUILTY ON ALL CHARGES IN GEORGE FLOYD&#39;S DEATH
&#34;Usually when the Justice Department finds unlawful practices or patterns of practices the local police department enters into a settlement agreement or a consent decree to ensure that prompt and effective action is taken to align policing practices with the law,&#34; Garland said.
The Baltimore 
consent decree
, entered into by the city in April 2017 following the death of Freddie Gray, called for changes that included instituting a community oversight task force, mandatory annual training for community policing and &#34;problem-oriented&#34; policing, new policies regarding stops, searches, arrests, use of force, and transporting people in custody.
Gray died after he was transported in a police vechile without being buckled in. None of the six officers involved were convicted, and four of them had their cases taken to trial. In September 2017, the DOJ 
announced
 that their own investigation yielded insufficient evidence to support federal civil rights charges against any of them.
BIDEN, HARRIS SLAM &#39;SYSTEMIC RACISM&#39; IN US, SAY CHAUVIN GUILTY VERDICT IS &#39;GIANT STEP&#39; TOWARD RACIAL JUSTICE
The Ferguson 
consent decree
, entered into following the August 2014 death of Michael Brown, also called for new measures related to community policing, use of force, stops, searches and seizures, body and car cameras, training, and more.
Brown died after an officer, Darren Wilson, shot him during an altercation. In November 2014 a grand jury decided not to indict Wilson, and a March 2015 
Justice Department report
 stated &#34;that the evidence does not support charging a violation of federal law.&#34;
Consent decrees were no longer the tool of choice under the Trump administration, with then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions issuing a 
memo
 in November 2018 narrowing their use.
That is not to say that they were non-existent. A Chicago 
consent decree
 was entered into in January 2019, following allegations that the city&#39;s police had a pattern of excessive force against Black and Latino people. It too focused on improvements including those related to community policing, use of force, and body cameras.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Under the Biden administration, consent decrees could become more commonly used, as Garland rescinded the Sessions memo on Friday with a memo of his own.
&#34;This memorandum makes clear that the Department will use all appropriate legal authorities to safeguard civil rights and protect the environment, consistent with longstanding Departmental practice and informed by the expertise of the Department’s career workforce,&#34; Garland said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
