
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., provides insight into the push to recall Gov. Gavin Newsom. 
California
 Gov. Gavin Newsom said his state had administered more doses of the 
coronavirus vaccine
 than any other state, even though the majority of doses received had yet to be administered.
On Twitter, Newsom acknowledged that the state needed to do more – but said that it had administered 40% of its doses to health care workers and the state’s most vulnerable populations.
Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that California was among the states that had administered the highest number doses – at more than 1.07 million. Texas, however, had administered 1.16 million.
GOV. NEWSOM WON&#39;T JUMP VACCINE LINE: ‘DON’T THINK THAT WILL SIT WELL’ 
Still, other data paints a slightly more nuanced picture.
California is the 
most populous state
 in the U.S. with almost 40 million people, dwarfing second-place Texas, which has about 29 million people. Consequently, the Golden State has received more doses of the vaccine than other states at 3.54 million. Texas, for comparison, received 2.1 million.
When data is considered only a smaller scale, California’s rollout appears to be progressing slower than many other states.
For example, the 
CDC says
 the state has administered 2,716 doses per 100,000 individuals.
New York has administered 3,894 per 100,000 residents, while Florida has administered 3,972 per 100,000 individuals. Texas has administered 4,001 per 100,000 residents and Connecticut has administered 5,213 per 100,000 individuals.
Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., characterized Newsom’s handling of the vaccine distribution as &#34;inept&#34; during an 
interview with Fox News
 over the weekend.
&#34;We are so far behind in dispensing the vaccine, [Newsom] hasn’t been forward-leading,&#34; Issa said. &#34;The vaccines are not being distributed nearly fast enough in California, there are freezers full of vaccines that are not being put into people’s arms.&#34;
It should be noted, however, that California is currently dealing with one of the most severe virus outbreaks in the U.S. It has more than 2.9 million confirmed cases to date.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
As 
previously reported by Fox News
, at the beginning of the month Newsom said the vaccine rollout had gone &#34;too slowly.&#34; 
Many states throughout the U.S., however, have experienced similar challenges when administering the vaccine.
In the U.S. overall, more than 31.1 million doses have been distributed – and 12.2 million administered, according to data from the CDC. Only about 1.6 million people have received the required two doses necessary to maximize immunity.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
