
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News&#39; Janice Dean and New York Assemblyman Ron Kim, who both lost family members to COVID-19 in New York nursing homes, call for continued investigations and impeachment efforts against Governor Cuomo on his final day in office.
Resigning 
New York
 Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 is getting raked over the social media coals for a report that he tried to give his 
dog
 Captain away during his final days in office.
The Albany Times Union reported Monday morning, citing two state 
police
 sources, that Cuomo, a Democrat, left the dog behind at the Executive Mansion before he started staying with one of his sisters in Westchester County last week.
CUOMO SNAPS AT REPORTER WHEN CONFRONTED ABOUT HIS SCANDALS AT HURRICANE BRIEFING
Cuomo asked mansion staffers to take Captain, and one volunteered, but the dog has a history of biting people and he was returned to the mansion just a few days later, the sources told the Times Union.
Cuomo’s top adviser and spokesman Richard Azzopardi was irate at the Times Union 
report
, telling the paper that the arrangement was only &#34;temporary&#34; because the governor is taking a vacation after he officially resigns at 11:59 p.m. Monday.
&#34;Captain is part of the governor&#39;s family and for your nameless ill-informed source to imply they&#39;ve been trying to give him away is untrue,&#34; Azzopardi said in a statement Saturday. 
&#34;Someone offered to watch him for a few days while the transition was ongoing but for that to be weaponized and morph from a game of telephone into the pages of your paper is absurd — now excuse us we&#39;re preparing for a major storm,&#34; he said, referring to Tropical Storm Henri.
Cuomo first introduced Captain in 2018 as a mix of shepherd, Siberian and malamute during the New York Conference of Mayors at the Executive Mansion, the Times Union reported. 
A video of the event
 showed the governor struggling to control Captain while he complained about the dog’s lack of potty training.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Cuomo is resigning in disgrace after the New York state attorney general alleged he sexually harassed 11 women, including staffers, during his three terms in office. He is also being investigated for his handling of nursing homes and his reporting of nursing home deaths during the coronavirus pandemic.
Critics on social media slammed Cuomo for reportedly leaving his dog behind and adding one last faux pas to his scandal-plagued governorship.
Libby Post, executive director of the New York State Animal Protection Federation, 
issued a statement
 Monday offering to help adopt Captain to another family, saying he &#34;deserves better.&#34;
&#34;I read with disbelief in this morning’s Times Union, that Captain, Governor Cuomo’s dog, had been left at the Executive Mansion after Cuomo’s belongings had been moved out of the Eagle Street building. The New York State Animal Protection Federation is ready to help place Captain at one of our larger New York State animal shelters, such as the Mohawk Hudson Humane Society in Menands, just north of Albany. Shelters like Mohawk Hudson, Lollypop Farm in Rochester and the SPCA Serving Erie County have excellent behavioral experts who can help Captain resolve his ‘nipping’ issues and adopt him into a loving, forever home.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
