
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
14 people killed in Chicago over the weekend; &#39;America&#39;s Newsroom&#39; reports
President Biden
 met with 
Chicago
’s mayor on Wednesday, in the wake of an 
extremely violent
 holiday weekend in the nation’s third most populous city.
The president, on his way to an event in McHenry County, Illinois – where he&#39;s making the case for the infrastructure deal reached by a bipartisan group of senators and the White House – was greeted by 
Illinois 
Gov. J.B. Pritzker and Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot, both Democrats, as he deplaned Air Force One at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport.
OVER 100 SHOT IN CHICAGO DURING VERY VIOLENT JULY FOURTH WEEKEND
The meeting came after more than 100 people were shot and 19 killed over the Fourth of July weekend in Chicago, the city’s most violent weekend this year. And LIghtfoot has come under increasing pressure to take action.
Lightfoot campaigned for mayor as a public safety expert and on Tuesday vowed that &#34;we are doing absolutely everything that we can to stem the violence.&#34; But the city council and neighborhood officials are growing restless.

      President Joe Biden greets Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot, as he arrives at O&#39;Hare International Airport, Wednesday, July 7, 2021, in Chicago. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
The president last month 
rolled out a package 
of crime-fighting proposals that included cracking down on illegal guns, which has long been a major contributing factor to Chicago’s violence.
CHICAGO&#39;S TOP COP SLAMS COURTS THAT RELEASE VIOLENT OFFENDERS AFTER VERY VIOLENT WEEKEND
Biden’s stop in Chicago came hours after two federal agents and a Chicago police officer were shot early Wednesday while on duty in an unmarked law enforcement vehicle on the city’s Far South Side.
After the meeting, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in a statement that &#34;during a greet with Mayor Lightfoot on the airport tarmac, President Biden expressed his personal support for the two ATF officials and the Chicago police officer who were shot earlier today. He reiterated his commitment to working with the Mayor and leaders in Chicago in the fight against gun violence and conveyed that the Department of Justice would soon be in touch about the strike force announced just a few weeks ago that will be working with cities like Chicago.&#34;
Ahead of next year’s midterm elections, when the Republicans aim to win back majorities in both the House and Senate, the GOP’s been targeting Biden for the rise in crime and gun violence in cities across the country. And they’ve been trying to tie the president and congressional Democrats to the calls by some on the far left of the Democratic Party to defund the police in the wake of last year&#39;s protests from coast to coast over racial inequity.  
BIDEN TRAVELS TO RED PART OF BLUE STATE TO PUSH BIPARTISAN INFRASTRUCTURE DEAL
National polling indicates that crime is rising as a top issue on the minds of American voters. 
The president’s overall approval rating stood at 50% approval and 42% disapproval in an 
ABC News/Washington Post poll
 conducted June 27-30. But his approval on dealing with crime was underwater, at 38
%
-48%.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
