
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
New York State Assembly Republican Leader Will Barclay gives an update on the move to impeach New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo over his mishandling of nursing home deaths.
Democratic 
New York
 State Assemblyman Ron Kim said on Friday that New York Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 should consider resigning amidst growing criticism over the state’s coronavirus nursing home scandal.
During an interview on The View, Kim acknowledged that lawmakers in the state assembly are looking for ways to limit Cuomo’s emergency COVID-19 powers – but said that was &#34;not good enough.&#34;
&#34;What are the next steps? Right now we’re actively talking what that looks like,&#34; Kim said. &#34;People have also asked me ‘should he resign?’ And I think the – Cuomo himself should be asking himself that question in this moment.&#34;
A spokesperson for Cuomo’s office did not return Fox News’ request for comment.
AOC CALLS FOR ‘FULL INVESTIGATION’ OF CUOMO’S HANDLING OF NURSING HOMES AMID CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC 
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Friday tossed her name into the ring with a number of other lawmakers in the state who are calling for an investigation into how Cuomo handled nursing home patients during the pandemic.
There are also discussions about possibly forming an impeachment commission.
Cuomo and Kim appear to have a contentious relationship. Kim alleged earlier this week that the governor threatened to &#34;destroy&#34; him after he spoke out about the nursing home situation.
Kim said on Friday that Cuomo called him last Thursday and spent &#34;ten minutes&#34; threatening his career and ordering him to issue a statement to cover for his state secretary, who had days earlier admitted that the administration withheld life-saving nursing home data because they &#34;feared the information would be used against them,&#34; according to Kim.
Cuomo has said he has had a &#34;
long and hostile
&#34; relationship with Kim, and suggested Kim’s claims were born out of this contentious history.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
As previously reported by Fox News, a report released by New York Attorney General Letitia James at the end of last month revealed total nursing home deaths in the state were higher than previously expected – undercounted by as much as 55%. Those figures were attributed to a policy whereby the state counted deaths that occurred on nursing home grounds and not those who later died in a hospital.
The Department of Health revealed shortly after James’ report was released that an additional 3,829 residents died after being transferred to hospitals, which is about 40% more deaths than had previously been counted. At least 12,743 long-term care residents died of the virus as of Jan. 19.
New data released last week
 upped those figures to at least 14,100.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
