
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Facing mounting pressure from fellow state officials, an 
Arizona
 Democrat resigned Tuesday after being accused of 
sexual abuse
 with two minors, according to reports.
State Sen. Tony Navarrete, 35, wrote in an email that he was stepping down immediately, state Senate President Karen Fann, a Republican, told The Associated Press.
Navarrete’s resignation was immediately accepted by Fann and state Senate Democratic leader Rebecca Rios, they said in a joint statement, according to FOX 10 of Phoenix.
ARIZONA LAWMAKERS DEMAND SENATOR LINKED TO SEX WITH MINOR RESIGN
&#34;This was the right thing to do considering the serious allegations,&#34; the Senate leaders said in their joint statement, FOX 10 reported. &#34;We know that the Arizona Judicial Branch will deliver justice and pray for healing and support for all victims.&#34;
Following Navarrete&#39;s resignation, state Senate Ethics Chair Sine Kerr wrote that an ethics complaint against the Democrat had been &#34;dismissed as moot.&#34;
Navarrete is accused of repeatedly abusing a boy whom he had been living with who is now 16, starting when the boy was about 12 or 13 and continuing to age 15, FOX 10 reported.
ARIZONA AUTHORITIES ARREST 40 MEN ACCUSED OF CHILD SEX CRIMES
The teen told authorities he deals with anxiety and anger because of the alleged abuse, the station reported.
The disgraced Democrat is also accused of attempting to abuse the teen’s younger brother, according to FOX 10.

      Former Arizona state Sen. Tony Navarrette. (Arizona Legislature website)
      
Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, called the charges against Navarrete &#34;abhorrent&#34; in a Twitter message last Friday.
Both Ducey and the Arizona Democratic Party called for the lawmaker’s resignation.
After his arrest last week, Navarrete appeared in court Friday but did not enter a plea on charges of child molestation and sexual contact with a minor, 
the station reported
.
Maricopa County Superior Court Commissioner Steve McCarthy set Navarrete’s bond at $50,000 after the suspect’s defense lawyer requested $15,000, the report said.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
McCarthy also ordered the Democrat to surrender his passport and avoid contact with minors if he’s released pending further legal action.
Navarrete was serving his first term in the state Senate after previously serving in the state House.
He faces at least 49 years in prison if convicted, FOX 10 reported.
The process of filling Navarrete&#39;s vacated state Senate seat will begin after Ducey and Secretary of State Katie Hobbs are formally informed about the resignation, FOX 10 reported.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
