
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
President of the National Border Patrol Council argues Biden and his staff are not allowing the press into processing centers and not allowing the U.S. to see visuals of overcrowded facilities that border patrol agents are managing.
President Biden did not directly address a question from Fox News’ Peter Doocy Tuesday asking why his administration is continuing to allow untested and unvaccinated illegal immigrants into the country while at the same time urging and in some cases mandating that Americans take the coronavirus vaccine.
&#34;You just said there is no wall high enough and no ocean wide enough to protect us from the virus,&#34; Doocy asked the president. &#34;So what is the thinking behind letting untested and unvaccinated migrants across the southern border into U.S. cities in record numbers?&#34;
BORDER CRISIS SHOWS NO SIGN OF SLOWING AS MIGRANTS POUR IN; FORMER OFFICIALS SLAM ‘NATIONAL EMBARRASSMENT&#39;
Biden responded by saying that he has not rescinded an order urging migrants who are unvaccinated to go back across the border.
&#34;We have not withdrawn the order that is sometimes -- criticized saying that unvaccinated people should go back across the border,&#34; Biden said, adding that unaccompanied children are a &#34;different story.&#34;
Doocy then attempted a follow-up question but was drowned out by other reporters before the president called on someone else.
Biden has been widely criticized for continuing to allow illegal immigrants to be released into border towns while displaying symptoms of the coronavirus, and the number of migrants infected with the virus has 
surged
 almost 1,000% in some border sectors.
&#34;This White House is allowing our country not only to be invaded with many criminals crossing the border, MS-13 potential or current gang members, but now they are letting a flow of people infected with COVID while they are telling students in the first and second grade that they have to wear a mask, or telling adults, vaccinate or wear a mask,&#34; Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick 
said
 last week. 
TEXAS RANCHER FACES $60K IN PROPERTY DAMAGE FROM MIGRANTS, SAYS LANDOWNERS HIRING PRIVATE SECURITY
Last week, Doocy 
pressed
 principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre on the same question and received a similar answer that did not directly address the specific allegations of hypocrisy that have been levied on social media.
Earlier this week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
extended
 a Trump-era policy aimed at limiting migrant entry into the United States, citing coronavirus concerns, but that policy does not apply to migrant children.
&#34;This order was issued on August 2, 2021 and shall remain in effect until the CDC Director determines that the danger of further introduction of COVID-19 into the United States from covered noncitizens has ceased to be a serious danger to the public health, and the Order is no longer necessary to protect the public health,&#34; the CDC said in a press release Monday. The agency said it will review the situation every 60 days &#34;to ensure that the Order remains necessary to protect the public health.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Border Patrol 
predicted
 earlier this year that 184,000 migrant children will enter the United States illegally this year, and over 1 million illegal immigrants have been 
encountered
 at the border so far this fiscal year.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
