
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Where is Rep. Lieu getting his bad numbers from?
California
 
Democrat
 
Rep. Ted Lieu is facing scrutiny over donating more than $50,000 of his campaign dollars to his alma mater as his son prepares to enter the school for his freshman year.
Federal Election Commission (FEC) filings 
show
 that Lieu gave $51,046 to his alma mater, Stanford University, between February 2016 and June 2018.
Lieu&#39;s son is about to start at Stanford as a freshman in the class of 2025 according to his Instagram bio, prompting scrutiny of the congressman’s donations and references to the school’s infamous &#34;Varsity Blues&#34; scandal.
CALIFORNIA FINANCIER AGREES TO PLEAD GUILTY IN COLLEGE ADMISSIONS SCANDAL
The nearly decade-long scandal saw William Singer fraudulently inflate test scores and bribe college admissions officials — such as at 
Stanford
 
— for the kids of rich parents, including actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin.
Lieu faced 
scrutiny
 
for the donations after they were brought up again online by a Twitter user, with the account of the user who posted screenshots of the filings later being suspended by Twitter.
According
 
to the FEC, campaigns are allowed to give financial contributions to charitable organizations, but the money &#34;cannot be used for purposes that personally benefit the candidate.&#34;
A spokesperson for the Center for Responsive Politics, which runs the campaign finance watchdog organization OpenSecrets, told Fox News that campaigns are legally allowed to donate funds to colleges and universities, but it is more common with outgoing lawmakers.
&#34;Campaigns can and do donate to charities and universities from their campaign funds, but it&#39;s more common when a member is retiring and has leftover cash,&#34; the spokesperson said in a Thursday email.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It is unclear if Lieu’s contributions to the university influenced Stanford’s decision to admit his son.
Neither Lieu’s campaign nor Stanford University responded to Fox News’ requests for comment.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
