
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox &amp;amp; Friends Weekend co-host Will Cain reacts to news that Gov. Cuomo allegedly showed favoritism to executives and family with regards to coronavirus testing.
Peace off!
Chris Cuomo, the CNN-host younger brother of Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
, gave a two-finger salute as he headed to get a COVID-19 vaccine in the Hamptons on Tuesday — amid the growing scandal over 
preferential testing he allegedly received
 from his governor brother.
Sporting a light blue shirt, dark shorts and a baseball cap and mask, Cuomo held his right arm aloft to offer the gesture to a photographer.
The &#34;Cuomo Prime Time&#34; host, 50, was en route to a Hamptons vaccination center.
ANDREW CUOMO CLAIMED IN BOOK HE WAS UNABLE TO &#39;HELP&#39; BROTHER CHRIS AFTER CNN ANCHOR&#39;S COVID DIAGNOSIS
Cuomo — who 
chronicled his battle
 with the 
coronavirus 
on his show last year — stepped out one day after The Washington Post detailed how a top state physician allegedly made several hours-long visits to his Hamptons home in 2020 to test him for the virus.
Among those also 
allegedly receiving priority testing
 at the governor’s behest were his elderly mother Matilda Cuomo, his fashion-designer brother-in-law Kenneth Cole, and key members of his political inner circle, sources told The Washington Post and, last week, The Albany Times-Union.
&#34;To the extent this occurred, the governor was not aware,&#34; Cuomo spokesman Rich Azzopardi told The Washington Post in response to the allegations.
The alleged preferential treatment is the 
subject of an ethics complaint
 by state Senate Minority Leader Rob Ortt (R-Lockport), and will be 
covered under an ongoing probe
 by the state Assembly as a possible prelude to impeachment proceedings sparked by 
sexual harassment and misconduct allegations
.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
County leaders on Sunday told The Post that the alleged preferential treatment came as the Cuomo administration 
partially rebuffed their requests
 for expanded testing in nursing homes.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
