
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Dan Bongino and Steven Mosher discuss how the Biden administration has given China a pass, while criticizing Georgia
Sen. Raphael Warnock
, D-Ga., admitted to signing off on false information in a third-party advocacy group&#39;s email that went out about the Georgia voting law after it passed.
The Washington Post 
flagged an email
 Warnock signed from the liberal nonprofit 3.14 Action as an example of Democratic misinformation about the sweeping Georgia voting reforms, as it claimed the new law restricted weekend early voting and ended no-excuse mail voting.
&#34;Sen. Raphael G. Warnock, one of two new Democratic senators representing Georgia, signed an email sent out by the advocacy group 3.14 Action after the law passed, which claimed it ended no-excuse mail voting and restricted early voting on the weekends — also early proposals that did not become law,&#34; the Post reported.
Those ideas were considered but did not make it into the final bill, which actually expands early voting in Georgia to 17 days, including two Saturdays. It also still allows no-excuse absentee voting, albeit with a shorter window of 67 days to apply.
WARNOCK DECLINES TO OPPOSE GEORGIA BOYCOTTS OVER NEW ELECTION LAW
The statement went out on March 30, five days after Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp, a Republican, signed the final bill into law.

      Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., talks to a reporter as he leaves the Capitol at the conclusion of the second day of the second impeachment trial of former President Trump, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Feb. 10, 2021. 
      
(AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
A Warnock campaign spokesperson told Fox News it approved the text of the group&#39;s email before Kemp signed the bill, while the provisions were still under consideration. The spokesperson noted the Georgia Senate passed a bill to end no-excuse absentee voting earlier in March, and the Georgia House originally proposed restricting weekend early voting.
However, neither provision made it into the final bill, as the 3.14 Action statement Warnock signed appeared to claim.
The law has been the subject of fierce controversy, with 
President Biden
 and other Democrats likening it to racist &#34;
Jim Crow
&#34;-era restrictions. Kemp and other state Republicans 
have pushed back
 on the criticism and said the reforms strengthen voting integrity.
WARNOCK DELETES EASTER TWEET AMID BACKLASH
Biden has also disseminated false information about the law, 
getting Four Pinocchios
 from The Washington Post&#39;s Fact-Checker for claiming the law limits voting hours.
The firestorm around the law has already economically hurt Georgia. Bowing to liberal pressure and outrage from Georgia-based corporations like Delta and Coca-Cola, Major League Baseball Commissioner Rob Manfred 
pulled
 the 2021 All-Star Game out of Atlanta&#39;s Truist Park, costing the area up to an 
estimated $100 million
 in potential revenue.
Warnock said he was disappointed by MLB&#39;s decision but framed it as the fault of Republicans, calling it an &#34;unfortunate&#34; consequence of the voting bill.
&#34;It is my hope that businesses, athletes, and entertainers can protest this law not by leaving Georgia but by coming here and fighting voter suppression head on, and hand-in-hand with the community,&#34; he said in a statement.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The new Georgia lawmaker is a staunch supporter of the For The People Act, a sweeping national voting bill which Republicans 
have slammed
 as a massive federal overreach and Democratic power grab.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
