
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributors Leo Terrell and Andy McCarthy provide insight on ‘The Story.’
President Biden
 plans to host the family of 
George Floyd
 at the 
White House 
on Tuesday, the one-year anniversary of Floyd&#39;s death. 
Floyd, 46, died after a Minneapolis 
police 
officer kneeled on his neck for more than nine minutes during an arrest. 
His May 25, 2020, murder sparked months of 
protests
 across the U.S. against alleged police brutality and racism. 
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Friday that Biden would mark the day but didn’t provide specifics.
The president previously set the date as the deadline for passage of the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, a police reform bill that has stalled in the Senate after passing through the House in March. 
GEORGE FLOYD DEATH: CHAUVIN COULD FACE TOUGHER SENTENCE AS MINNEAPOLIS JUDGE FINDS AGGRAVATING FACTORS
The bill would ban chokeholds, end qualified immunity for law enforcement against civil lawsuits and create national standards for policing. Republicans oppose ending qualified immunity. 

      A person reacts near Cup Foods after a guilty verdict was announced at the trial of former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin for the 2020 death of George Floyd, in Minneapolis, April 20, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
Psaki on Friday admitted the bill was &#34;unlikely&#34; to pass by Biden’s deadline but insisted progress continues to be made on it. 
Floyd’s family also plans to host events with politicians and civil rights leaders in Minneapolis on Tuesday, the 
Star Tribune
 in Minneapolis reported. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin was convicted of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter last month in Floyd&#39;s death. 
Three other former police officers await trial in connection with the case.
Defendants Thomas Lane, J. Kueng and Tou Thao are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
