
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Jim Trusty and John Yoo weigh in on the Durham probe on &#39;Fox News @ Night&#39; 
A federal grand jury indicted attorney Michael Sussmann based on allegations stemming from 
Special Counsel John Durham&#39;s probe
 of the origins of the 
Russia investigation
, leading to his resignation from a law firm with established ties to the Democratic National Committee and 
Hillary Clinton&#39;s
 2016 campaign.
The indictment alleges that the cybersecurity attorney, who until this week was a partner at Perkins Coie – and previously worked for the 
Justice Department
 – falsely stated that he was not working &#34;for any client&#34; when he presented evidence to 
FBI
 officials of a purported secret communications channel between then-candidate 
Donald Trump
 and 
Russia
.
That supposed channel was alleged to have been between the Trump Organization and a Russian bank.
CLINTON CAMPAIGN LAWYER MICHAEL SUSSMANN INDICTED FOR ALLEGEDLY LYING TO FBI DURING RUSSIA INVESTIGATION
In reality, the indictment alleges, Sussmann had been working on behalf of clients, including the Clinton campaign. Perkins Coie, in working with the campaign and the Democratic National Committee, had retained research firm Fusion GPS to conduct opposition research on Trump, which included Christopher Steele&#39;s dossier on Trump and Russia.
Sussmann, who earned his law degree from Brooklyn Law School and his undergraduate degree from Rutgers University, joined the Democratic National Committee&#39;s cybersecurity advisory board upon its inception in August 2016, months before that year&#39;s presidential election. According to the indictment, it was the following month that he requested and had a meeting with the FBI about the possible link between Trump and Russia.
RIC GRENELL: FBI WASN&#39;T ‘DUPED’ BY HILLARY-LINKED LAWYER INDICTED IN DURHAM PROBE
The Justice Department noted in announcing the Sussmann indictment that the FBI determined there was insufficient evidence to support allegations of a secret channel between the Trump Organization and the Russian bank.
Sussmann&#39;s attorneys said in a statement that he was indicted &#34;because of politics, not facts&#34; and that Sussmann requested the FBI meeting due to national security concerns.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
This is not the first time Sussmann has been accused of wrongdoing in connection with the Russia investigation and his work at Perkins Coie. Former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page twice tried to sue Sussmann and now-former Perkins Coie partner Marc Elias, claiming they were instrumental in disseminating information contained in the Steele dossier.
Page claimed that the dossier included false information tying him to Russia, but judges dismissed both cases – one filed in Oklahoma, the other in Illinois – claiming the respective courts did not have jurisdiction over the defendants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
