
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Harriet Hageman tells &#39;The Ingraham Angle&#39; Cheney is busy fighting Trump instead of fighting Democrats 
Being at the top of former President Trump’s most wanted list of targeted Republican politicians keeps fueling  
Rep. Liz Cheney
 of 
Wyoming
’s
fundraising
.
Cheney, the most high-profile of the 10 
House
 
Republicans
 who voted in January to 
impeach
 Trump for fanning the Capitol insurrection, hauled in $1.7 million during the July-September third quarter of fundraising.
The congresswoman’s fundraising the past three months follows a record breaking $1.9 million that she brought in during the April-June second quarter and the $1.5 million raised during the first three months of the year. Cheney’s campaign reports nearly $3.7 million cash on hand. Wyoming’s 
Casper Star Tribune
 was first to report the campaign cash numbers.
FORMER PRESIDENT BUSH TO RAISE MONEY FOR CHENEY IN HIS FIRST 2022 EVENT
&#34;Rep. Cheney continues to receive historic levels of support because she is upholding her oath to the Constitution, delivering for the people she represents in Wyoming, and offering a serious path forward for the Republican Party,&#34; Senior Cheney campaign adviser Amy Edmonds said in a statement. &#34;She is humbled that so many are standing with her in this fight and she will never waver in her commitment to Wyoming or her determination to do what’s right for our country.&#34;

      Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., speaks to reporters after House Republicans voted to oust her from her leadership post as chair of the House Republican Conference because of her repeated criticism of former President Donald Trump for his false claims of election fraud and his role in instigating the Jan. 6 U.S. Capitol attack, at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, May 12, 2021. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
      
( (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta))
Cheney will likely add to her war chest next week, as 
former President George W. Bush
 headlines a fundraiser for her in Dallas, Texas. Cheney is the daughter of 
former Vice President Dick Cheney
, who served as Bush’s vice president during his two terms (2001-2009) in the White House.
Trump has launched a full court press to defeat Cheney as she runs next year for a fourth two-year term representing the entire state of Wyoming in the House. Last month he backed one of the candidates hoping to defeat Cheney in next year&#39;s Republican primary. The former president endorsed lawyer and former gubernatorial candidate Harriet Hageman, writing in a release put out by his political action committee that &#34;Harriet is all in for America First.&#34;
CHENEY TELLS FOX NEWS SUNDAY TRUMP SUPPORTERS WERE &#39;MISLED ... BETRAYED&#39;
Cheney, a longtime vocal GOP critic of the then-president, immediately came under verbal attack by Trump and his allies after her impeachment vote, but in February she easily crushed an effort by Trump loyalists in the House to dump her from her leadership position as House Republican Conference Chair.
Trump continued to target Cheney, as well as the other nine House Republicans who voted to impeach him and the seven GOP senators who voted to convict the now-former president in his impeachment trial in February. And in May she was ousted from her No. 3 House GOP Republican leadership position.
Cheney has been very vocal in emphasizing the importance of defending the nation&#39;s democratic process, and in May gave a well-covered speech in the House chamber about putting love and defense of the country above partisan politics. She’s currently one of only two Republicans serving on a special committee organized by House Democrats to investigate the insurrection at the Capitol.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
After Trump pilloried Cheney last month as &#34;the Democrats number one provider of soundbites,&#34; she fired back on Twitter, writing &#34;Here’s a sound bite for you: Bring it.&#34;
After making his endorsement, Trump and his allies successfully urged some, but not all, of the other anti-Cheney candidates to drop out of the primary and coalesce around Hageman.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
