
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Hunter Biden probe, Gov. Andrew Cuomo nursing home scandal expected to be topics at hearing for attorney general pick Merrick Garland. Jamil Jaffer, director of the National Security Law &amp;amp; Policy Program at George Mason University, with reaction.
Merrick Garland
, President Biden’s pick to lead the 
Justice Department
, said Monday he &#34;hadn’t thought&#34; about whether illegal entry at the southern border should remain a crime.
Garland was asked by 
Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo.,
 if he believed &#34;that illegal entry at America’s border should remain a crime?&#34;
MERRICK GARLAND SAYS HE DOES NOT SUPPORT DEFUNDING THE POLICE 
&#34;Well, I haven’t thought about that question. I just haven’t thought about that question,&#34; Garland responded. &#34;I think the president has made clear that we are a country with borders and with a concern about national security. I don’t know of a proposal to decriminalize but still make it unlawful to enter. I just don’t know the answer to that question. I hadn’t thought about it.&#34;
There has been a push in recent years to decriminalize illegal border crossings from left-wing Democrats and immigrant activist groups. Most notably, the 2020 presidential platform of Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., included a pledge to decriminalize illegal border crossings, making it a civil rather than a criminal offense.
MERRICK GARLAND: LIVE UPDATES
But Republicans have expressed concern about the Biden administration adopting a radical agenda on immigration in the wake of a slew of moves reversing Trump-era policies. This week, 
Republicans in the House accused
 Biden of pushing a &#34;far-left&#34; agenda that is fueling a crisis at the border.
GARLAND SEES ‘NO REASON’ WHY DURHAM SHOULDN’T BE LEFT IN PLACE FOR RUSSIA ORIGINS PROBE BUT DECLINES COMMITTAL
The Biden administration has moved to implement a 100-day pause on deportations – a move that has so far been blocked due to a lawsuit. 
It has since narrowed guidance
 for who would be targeted for arrest and deportation.
Meanwhile, Biden has stopped construction of the wall at the southern border and moved to roll back the 
Migrant Protection Protocols
, which keep migrants in Mexico as their cases are heard.
Separately, Democrats have introduced a Biden-backed bill that includes an eight-year path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants in the country.
Hawley on Tuesday again pressed Garland, asking if the Justice Department under his leadership would continue to prosecute illegal border crossings – something Garland said was a question of &#34;allocation of resources.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;We will, the department will, prevent unlawful crossing,&#34; he said. &#34;I don’t know ... I have to admit I just don’t understand, know exactly, what the conditions are and how this is done. I think if, I don’t know what the current program even is with respect to this.&#34; 
&#34;So, I assume the answer would be yes, but I don’t know what the issues surrounding it are,&#34; he responded.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
