
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows on President Biden’s school reopening guidance promoting activist group’s handbook.
Rep. 
Burgess Owens
 introduced a bill Tuesday that would ban the 
federal government
 from funding diversity trainings that divide employees based on their race.
Owens&#39; Say No To Indoctrination Act comes in response to the spread of the controversial doctrine of 
critical race theory
 in schools, governments, and corporations nationwide.
SEN. BLACKBURN BLASTS MEDIA, BIG TECH AND DEMOCRATS AS BEING &#39;IN CAHOOTS&#39; ON CRITICAL RACE THEORY
&#34;From the Tulsa Race Massacre to Jim Crow and Juneteenth, young Americans deserve to learn about all significant events in our country’s history,&#34; the Utah Republican said about his legislation. 
&#34;Critical race theory, however, teaches students that America is irredeemably racist and intrinsic characteristics like race, color, and national origin define you. As we strive to address injustice, I’m proud to introduce the say no to indoctrination act to keep taxpayer dollars from funding discriminatory practices and divisive worldviews.&#34;
Owens&#39; bill was first 
reported
 by the Daily Caller. 
In June, 
President Biden
 signed an executive order that required race and diversity trainings at the federal government level which Republicans have argued is divisive and only enflames racial tensions. 
NEWT GINGRICH: CRITICAL RACE THEORY AND MILITARY – THIS IS HOW OUR TROOPS AND THE COUNTRY WILL BE HURT
Last summer, government employees in Seattle were 
segregated 
based on race during diversity training and white employees were instructed on how to &#34;undo&#34; their &#34;whiteness.&#34;
Former President Trump 
issued an executive order
 during his presidency intended to curb the spread of the divisive training, but that order was rescinded by President Biden. 
&#34;This poisonous left-wing doctrine is flagrant racism, plain and simple, and it has no place in our schools, no place in our military and no place in our country,&#34; Trump 
said
 
during a speech in Arizona over the weekend. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Last week, White House press secretary Jen Psaki 
insisted
 that the Biden administration is not pushing critical race theory in schools despite promoting a handbook promoting the teachings.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
