
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Idaho 
Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin announced her plans to run for governor Wednesday, joining a crowded field of Republican challengers to Gov. 
Brad Little
 in 
2022
, according to reports. 
McGeachin has clashed with Little over the last year on his 
coronavirus 
restrictions, FOX 28 in Spokane, Wash., reported, and her move shows the divide in the state between establishment Republicans and Trump-aligned politicians. 
Last year, McGeachin called their relationship &#34;tense&#34; while she publicly criticized him over his April 2020 stay-at-home order, KTVB-TV in Boise reported. 
&#34;Idahoans have witnessed serious, egregious violations over this past year,&#34; McGeachin told supporters on the steps of the Idaho Statehouse in Boise Wednesday, 
KIVI
-TV in Boise reported. &#34;Some who were entrusted with positions of leadership caved to fear and compromised principles.&#34; 
IDAHO GOVERNOR SIGNS BILL BANNING ABORTIONS AFTER FETAL HEARTBEAT DETECTED

      Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin tears up a FEMA COVID agreement as she announces her run for Idaho governor at the Downtown Event Center in Idaho Falls, Idaho, on Wednesday, May 19, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
During her announcement, she said she also plans to fight &#34;radical leftists,&#34; according to the Idaho Statesman. 
McGeachin told cheering supporters she is a &#34;proud Idahoan, a devout Christian, a proven and committed conservative, a devoted wife and mother and, with your support, I will be the first woman to lead Idaho as governor.&#34; 
She is also the state’s first female lieutenant governor, according to 
KTVB
. 
At least five other Republicans have announced plans to challenge Little so far, the 
Statesman 
reported. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
McGeachin served in the state House of Representatives from 2002 to 2012, according to 
FOX 28. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
