
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A 
Pennsylvania 
woman was charged Thursday with 
stealing
 House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi’s
 laptop during the Jan. 6 
Capitol riot
, reports said. 
Riley Williams, 22, was also accused of selling or getting rid of the Hewlett-Packard computer, which has yet to be found, according to KDKA-TV of Pittsburgh. 
Williams was arrested in January after investigators saw cellphone video, allegedly recorded by her, that allegedly showed her taking the laptop from Pelosi’s office during the riot but the Justice Department waited eight months to formally indict her. 
The suspect was released on home confinement with an ankle monitor, United Press International reported. 

      Riley Williams, 22, is charged in connection with the theft of Nancy Pelosi&#39;s laptop, authorities say.
      
(Dauphin County Jail )
Witnesses have told investigators Williams intended to sell the laptop, possibly to another government. The suspect denied those accusations, which investigators have not said they have corroborated. 
&#34;[Witness 1] stated that WILLIAMS intended to send the computer device to a friend in Russia, who then planned to sell the device to SVR, Russia’s foreign intelligence service,&#34; an investigator said, according to 
Politico
. &#34;According to [Witness 1], the transfer of the computer device to Russia fell through for unknown reasons and WILLIAMS still has the computer device or destroyed it.&#34;

      Rioters storm the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. 
      
(Associated Press)
Williams faces several other felony and misdemeanor counts, including a new one for resisting or assaulting police, 
UPI 
reported. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Williams is one of more than 50 people from Pennsylvania and hundreds of suspects from across the country who have been arrested in connection with the riot, 
KDKA 
reported. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
