
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The president participated in &#39;Help is Here&#39; tour promoting COVID relief package; FOX News&#39; Peter Doocy on &#39;Special Report&#39; 
After 
more than 50 days
 in office, 
President Biden
 has yet to hold a solo 
news conference
 -- separating him from over a dozen of his most recent predecessors.
Though the president delivered his first prime time address last week to speak about the country’s progress in defeating the coronavirus pandemic, the stretch of over seven weeks is the longest period a new president has gone without meeting with the media in the last 100 years.
Biden will likely face questions about several challenges that his administration faces, including the crisis at the border, the future of the filibuster and the recent $1.9 trillion stimulus that Republicans have criticized.
There have also been two mass shootings in the U.S. since the start of his presidency, including one on Monday in Boulder, Colo., that resulted in 10 deaths, including a 
responding police officer.
The White House has said Biden will hold a news conference before April. Amid criticism, the White House this month 
said it will now take place
 Thursday.
WHITE HOUSE NOW SAYS BIDEN WILL HOLD FIRST PRESS CONFERENCE MARCH 25
Administration officials tried to justify his lengthy absence from the podium by saying he regularly has been taking questions from reporters in informal settings.
Former President Trump waited 27 days into his presidency to hold a press conference, former President Obama waited just 20 days before holding one, and former President George W. Bush waited 33 days before taking questions from the press in a formal setting.
Clinton
January 29, 1993 -- 9 days
GW Bush
Feb. 22, 2001 -- 33 days
Obama
Feb. 9, 2009 -- 20 days
Trump
Feb. 16, 2017 -- 27 days
&#34;The president takes questions several times a week,&#34; White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters last week. &#34;[W]hich is an opportunity for the people covering the White House to ask him about whatever news is happening on any given day.&#34;
She added that the president has been directing his &#34;energy&#34; and focus into getting Americans through the pandemic by getting shots in their arms and passing the American Rescue Plan.
Despite the unusual timing of his entry into the White House, Biden has frustrated the White House Correspondents Association. President Zeke Miller told 
Vanity Fair
 earlier this month that news conferences were &#34;critical to informing the American people and holding an administration accountable.&#34;
The 
Washington Post Editorial Board
 also condemned the president saying &#34;it’s past time for Biden to hold a news conference.&#34;
BIDEN SPEECH TO CONGRESS STILL NOT SCHEDULED DESPITE WHITE HOUSE PLEDGE FOR POST-COVID BILL DATE
Donald Trump
, whose administration was frequently criticized for its irregular communication with the media, held his first news conference after just one week from the start of his presidency.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
