
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Democratic Assemblyman Ron Kim demands answers for coronavirus nursing home victims on &#39;Fox &amp;amp; Friends.&#39;
It has been exactly one year since 
New York
 Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 issued a directive that has led to critics blaming him for thousands of nursing home deaths during the 
coronavirus
 pandemic.
On March 25, 2020, Cuomo&#39;s order required nursing homes to take in residents who had been hospitalized with COVID-19 after being declared &#34;medically stable&#34; and forbade them from turning people away for being infected.
GOV. CUOMO WON&#39;T ANSWER QUESTIONS ON AG INVESTIGATION &#39;UNTIL THE APPROPRIATE TIME&#39;
&#34;No resident shall be denied re-admission or admission to the [nursing home] solely based on a confirmed or suspected diagnosis of COVID-19,&#34; the order said. &#34;[Nursing homes] are prohibited from requiring a hospitalized resident who is determined medically stable to be tested for COVID-19 prior to admission or readmission.&#34;
The state removed the order from its website, but it 
remains visible
 via the internet archive Wayback Machine. A May 10 order effectively reversed it by requiring patients to test negative before hospitals send them back to nursing homes.

      New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo speaks during a news conference at his offices, Wednesday, March 24, 2021, in New York. (Brendan McDermid/Pool Photo via AP)
      
((Brendan McDermid/Pool Photo via AP))
The March 2020 order has been blamed for the large number of nursing home deaths in the state. While Cuomo has adamantly insisted that his directive was not the cause, blaming the casualties instead on nursing home staff who were infected, his administration&#39;s behavior has cast doubt on his claims and a shadow over his administration.
CUOMO DIRECTED NY HEALTH OFFICIALS TO PRIORITIZE COVID-19 TESTING FOR HIS RELATIVES: REPORT
When initially reporting the number of nursing home deaths caused by COVID-19, the state had only reported those who died in the facilities themselves, leaving out those who died after being taken to hospitals. A New York attorney general investigation found Cuomo&#39;s administration underreported nursing home deaths by more than 50%. 
The Associated Press found that as of Jan. 19, 2021, at least 12,743 nursing home residents had died of COVID-19, compared to the 8,505 the state had reported.
State lawmakers -- including many fellow Democrats -- began calling for Cuomo&#39;s resignation or impeachment after Cuomo aide Melissa DeRosa reportedly 
said on a call
 that nursing home death data had been withheld from state officials out of fear of repercussions from the U.S. Justice Department.
Cuomo and DeRosa 
then claimed
 that in reality the state lawmakers had been notified their request was being put on hold while the administration was addressing a federal request, but lawmakers pushed back, denying they were ever told about this.
Reports from the 
New York Times
 and 
Wall Street Journal
 later revealed Cuomo aides pushed state officials to rewrite a report, undercounting nursing home deaths by omitting those who died in hospitals and only including those who died in the nursing homes themselves. As a result, 6,432 deaths were counted in the report instead of nearly 10,000, sources told the Journal.
Cuomo has faced additional pressure to step down in the wake of multiple claims of sexual harassment, ranging from alleged inappropriate comments to an accusation that he groped a current staffer under her blouse. The governor has denied touching anyone improperly and claimed any offending remarks were not meant to cause discomfort.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
A new report from the 
Albany Times Union
 revealed, according to its sources, Cuomo and New York Health Commissioner Howard Zucker directed health officials to prioritize 
the governor&#39;s
 own family and figures with ties to his administration in the early days of the pandemic. This reportedly included preferential testing for family members, including CNN anchor Chris Cuomo.
Cuomo administration officials denied that anyone received preferential treatment. Richard Azzopardi, a top adviser to Cuomo, said the allegations were &#34;insincere efforts to rewrite the past.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
