
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News correspondent Trey Yingst reports on the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan on &#39;Special Report&#39;
A confidential internal 
State Department
 cable was sent to Secretary of State Antony Blinken last month warning about the potential collapse of 
Afghanistan
 following the full withdrawal of U.S. forces on Aug. 31, Fox News confirmed Thursday.
Roughly two dozen officials stationed at the U.S. embassy in Kabul sent a memo through the department’s confidential dissent channel to alert Blinken, along with another top State Department official, that the Taliban was well-positioned to take over the nation, the Wall Street Journal first reported.
TALIBAN OPENS FIRE ON PROTESTERS WAVING AFGHAN NATIONAL FLAG IN FRIGHTENING VIDEO
The cable, dated July 13, additionally provided suggestions on what should be done to counter the threat from the insurgent group and speed up the evacuation process. 
Among the recommendations made to the department was the suggestion to use &#34;tougher language&#34; when describing the atrocities that the Taliban had already committed.
A source familiar with the cable defended the secretary’s actions.
It &#34;was immediately brought to the secretary’s attention, and he personally approved the response,&#34; the source told Fox News.
&#34;We appreciated the thoughts of the drafters, which reflected much of the thinking at the department and throughout the inter-agency. For example, the cable coincided with our launch of Operation Allies Refuge – the effort to bring SIV applicants to the United States,&#34; the source said. &#34;We have consistently encouraged constructive use of the channel, which this was, and we conveyed that sentiment in our response.&#34;
AFGHANISTAN COLLAPSE: EVACUATION FLIGHTS DEPARTING KABUL WELL SHORT OF CAPACITY
Critics of the Biden administration’s withdrawal from Afghanistan point to the slow evacuation of not only American’s stuck in Kabul, but of the danger it put Afghans in who had helped the United States.
Thousands of Afghans who formally worked with Americans during the 20-year long war have applied for the U.S. Special Immigrant Visa program in order to be evacuated, along with their families, out for fear of Taliban reprisal. 
In its first 
press conference
 since taking control of the country earlier this week, the Taliban said it would not seek retribution against Afghans who worked with the U.S.
But reports have suggested Afghans flocking to the airport in Kabul are receiving 
hostile treatment
.
The Biden administration disputes the notion this confidential cable warned of the early fall of Afghanistan. A source noted to Fox News the cable said Kabul could fall &#34;shortly AFTER the U.S. leaves on 8/31&#34; and did not warn it could happen in early August.
Deputy National Security Advisor John Finer echoed these sentiments in an interview with CNN Thursday, telling Wolf Blitzer, &#34;The cable, as I understand it, predicted the potential fall of the Afghan government in the aftermath of a U.S. troop drawdown on August 31st. Obviously, that all happened even more quickly than the cable, which was quite concerned about this possibility, projected.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
He also said the internal memo suggested that evacuation flights should start on Aug. 1. 
&#34;We began those flights in July,&#34; Finer said. &#34;I think the cable reflects what we&#39;ve said all along, which is nobody had this exactly right in predicting that the government and army of Afghanistan were going to collapse in a matter of days.&#34;
Jacqui Heinrich contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
