
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
With an eye toward reuniting the country after the turbulent presidency of Donald Trump, 
President-elect Joe Biden
 marked the Martin Luther King Jr. federal holiday by volunteering.
The president-elect and his wife, the incoming first lady Jill Biden, made a short trip Monday from their home in Wilmington, Del., to 
Philadelphia
, to volunteer at Philabundance, a hunger-relief organization, during the official day of service to celebrate the historic civil rights leader’s life and legacy.
HARRIS RESIGNS FROM THE SENATE TWO DAYS BEFORE INAUGURATION
&#34;Service is a fitting way to start to heal, unite, and rebuild this country we love,&#34; Biden wrote on Twitter.
The Democratic president-elect&#39;s calls to work across the aisle with Republicans to try and unify a bitterly divided country has been a major theme of Biden&#39;s presidential campaign and transition for the past two months.
LIVE UPDATES FROM FOX NEWS ON THE BIDEN INAUGURATION
The Bidens&#39; trip to Philadelphia comes two days before the president-elect is 
inaugurated
. The Bidens, along with their daughter Ashley Biden and granddaughter Finnegan Biden, helped load cans into packed boxes that were being moved along a conveyor belt set up outside the building in the parking lot. Fox News was told that the Bidens packed over 150 boxes.

      President-elect Joe Biden participates in a National Day of Service event at Philabundance, a hunger relief organization, with his daughter Ashley Biden, and his granddaughter Finnegan Biden, left, Monday, Jan. 18, 2021, in Philadelphia. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
((AP Photo/Evan Vucci))
The president-elect wore a dark coat and a ball cap, which appeared to be a green Philabundance hat.
Philabundance
 provides more than 24 million pounds of food each year to those in need, including by providing food to smaller community food banks.
Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and her husband, incoming second gentleman Doug Emhoff, marked the holiday by volunteering in the nation’s capital. They filled bags of food at Martha’s Table, a non-profit organization that works to increase access to healthy food and high-quality educations.
Looking ahead to Wednesday&#39;s inaguration, Harris told reporters that &#34;we’re ready to do the work and we’ve got a lot of work to do. It’s not going to be easy.&#34;
&#34;Some would say our is an ambitious goal but we do believe with hard work and with the cooperation and collaboration of the United States Congress, we can get it done,&#34; he emphasized.
 
Fox News&#39; Madeleine Rivera and Allie Raffa contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
