
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich is suing the Biden administration over immigration policies he believes are ‘overwhelming the border.’
Arizona’s
 attorney general says he believes the 
Biden
 administration’s 
immigration
 policies are &#34;encouraging more illegal immigration.&#34;
Arizona and Montana are suing to block the Biden administration’s 
new immigration rules
 that would dramatically narrow the number of illegal immigrants targeted for arrest and deportation, arguing the policies would have devastating consequences for their states. Mark Brnovich discussed the lawsuit with 
Dana Perino
 on &#34;
America’s Newsroom
&#34; on Wednesday.
ARIZONA, MONTANA SUE TO BLOCK DHS RULES THAT WOULD LIMIT ICE ARRESTS
MARK BRNOVICH:
 We want the federal government to enforce the existing law. There are nearly a million people, about a million people that have deportation orders. The federal law requires that they be deported. Instead, what the Biden administration is doing is literally releasing convicted felons, people accused of crimes, people that haven’t been tested for COVID-19 into our communities. It’s overwhelming the border. 
We want the federal judge to basically say the Biden administration has to follow federal law. And what the Biden administration has done is actually endangering migrants, because it’s encouraging more illegal immigration to the country. And at the same time, because the system is getting overwhelmed, you’re seeing literally felons, people charged with crimes being released into our communities. 
Whether it’s the hospitals, the social services along the border, or law enforcement, we’re having to deal with the consequences. 
Just yesterday in a courtroom, a federal judge in Texas had asked the Biden Department of Justice what was going on with deportations. He said literally there have been people that have been convicted of felonies that are in prison, that are set for deportation, that wanted to be deported, and the administration is refusing to deport them. 
It’s really unconscionable. This has to be one of the dumbest all-time things coming out of Washington, D.C. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
We know the cartels are taking advantage of this kind of chaos that’s going on. And so I’m just here [as] the canary in the coal mine, to tell everyone this is not only going to affect the border states, this is going to impact the entire country. I mean, it’s going to harm all of us. 
WATCH CLIP HERE.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
