
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Rep. Dan Crenshaw, R-Texas, discusses how the Biden administration’s immigration policies have affected his state. He also reacts to the end of Texas’ mask mandate and other restrictions.
Rep. 
Dan Crenshaw
, R-
Texas
, says he believes the 
Biden
 administration’s 
immigration
 policies are &#34;prioritizing illegal immigrants over U.S. citizens.&#34;
President Joe Biden yesterday said the situation at the U.S.-
Mexico
 border was not a crisis and that his administration &#34;will be able to handle it.&#34; The comments come amid an 
Axios report
 citing DHS projections that 117,000 unaccompanied children are expected to cross the border in 2021. 
BIDEN SAYS MEXICO AN &#39;EQUAL&#39; AS HE DISMANTLES TRUMP IMMIGRATION POLICIES
Crenshaw joined 
Steve Doocy
 on &#34;
Fox &amp; Friends
&#34; to weigh in on how the administration’s immigration stances and policies are affecting his state. 
REP. DAN CRENSHAW: &#34;It’s the usual euphemisms to cover up their lies, right? If it’s not a crisis, it’s a challenge. It’s not a cage, it’s a soft-sided structure. 
DEMOCRATIC TEXAS LAWMAKER WARNS OF BIDEN&#39;S &#39;CATASTROPHIC&#39; IMMIGRATION POLICY
You can see in interviews [with] people coming in caravans to the U.S. as Biden was getting inaugurated saying ‘New president, now, here we come.’ 
There’s lines and lines of people, ok? They’re just waiting to come in. You know who they’re cutting in front of? Legal immigrants. My stepmother is a legal immigrant who waited years to come to this country. 
Here’s what’s even most infuriating about the COVID-positive cases that you just mentioned. U.S. citizens have to get a negative test before coming back into our country. This administration is prioritizing illegal immigrants over U.S. citizens. 
What immediately needs to happen is they need to reinstitute the migrant protection protocols, which is the ‘Remain in Mexico’ policy. This single action by the Trump administration almost single-handedly dropped illegal crossings.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It creates a disincentive to just cross, because they know they’re going to be sent right back to Mexico. When you just say, ‘Hey, if you cross, well, we’ll just give you a bus ticket anywhere you want, no matter what kind of COVID you have, it doesn’t really matter,’ of course, there’s a massive incentive for thousands and thousands more people to come across and they drag children with them. 
Here’s the worst part about this. This encourages child trafficking. A lot of times I talk to a lot of border agents. They see these kids just recycled over and over again because these adults know all they need is a kid with them.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
