
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Barstool Sports founder Dave Portnoy joins &#39;Fox &amp;amp; Friends&#39; and slams Robinhood for restricting GameStop trading.
Rep. 
Ilhan Omar
, D-Minn. on Thursday called for prison time for 
Wall Street
 short-sellers who &#34;used their power to cut off the public from buying&#34; certain stocks that unexpectedly 
surged in trading volume
 this week.
The share prices of stocks that some traders expected to fall, including GameStop, Bed Bad &amp; Beyond, Blackberry and Nokia, spiked this week as retail investors, spurred by the online Reddit forum WallStreetBets, piled into the securities, hurting short-sellers and stunning Wall Street.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Americans are told to invest in the market. But when they start to threaten the profits of billionaires, strange things happen,&#34; Omar tweeted on Thursday. &#34;If anyone on Wall Street with short positions in particular stocks used their power to cut off the public from buying those stocks, send them to prison.&#34;
Lawmakers across the political spectrum, as well as celebrities and other 
big business personalities
, took similar positions on Wednesday and Thursday as some mobile brokerage apps temporarily restricted trading for securities including GameStop, Bed Bath and Beyond, Nokia, Best Buy and others.
DAVE PORTNOY SLAMS ROBINHOOD APP AMID GAMESTOP TURMOIL: &#39;I THINK PEOPLE HAVE TO GO TO JAIL&#39;
The restrictions came as attempts to curb trading by small investors -- whom some Wall Street veterans fear could destroy hedge funds -- from being able to trade freely.
Two Robinhood users 
filed lawsuits
 against the brokerage app, accusing it of manipulating its platform so traders couldn&#39;t profit from buying certain stocks for a period of time. 
NEW YORK AG REVIEWING ROBINHOOD AFTER PLATFORM RESTRICTS TRADING OF CERTAIN SECURITIES
Barstool 
Sports
 founder 
Dave Portnoy
 went on a tirade Thursday against Robinhood after it restricted trading options, 
tweeting
 directly at Robinhood cofounders Vladimir Tenev and Baiju Bhatt and repeatedly saying the two entrepreneurs should go to &#34;jail.&#34;
Progressive politicians ranging from 
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez
, D-N.Y., to Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., joined conservatives including Rep. Dan Crenshaw, D-Texas; Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas; and Donald Trump Jr., in condemning Wall Street, displaying a rare show of unity on Thursday.
WHITE HOUSE REFUSES TO ADDRESS GAMESTOP CONTROVERSY
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
