
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., on Democrats introducing a bill to pack the Supreme Court.
A push by progressive congressional 
Democrats
 to expand the number of 
Supreme Court
 justices – a long shot to pass in 
Congress 
– doesn’t appear to be supported by most Americans.
While there’s no new public opinion polling on what’s called &#34;court packing&#34; by opponents and &#34;court expansion&#34; by proponents, there were a couple of national surveys conducted last autumn, during the heat of the presidential general election campaign.
PROGRESSIVES IN CONGRESS KICK OFF LONGSHOT PUSH TO EXPAND SIZE OF SUPREME COURT
That’s when the issue was last in the headlines, following the death of liberal leaning Supreme Court Justice 
Ruth Bader Ginsburg
 and the successful controversial push by 
then-President Trump 
and the then-Senate GOP majority to quickly confirm conservative leaning federal Judge 
Amy Coney Barrett 
to fill the vacant high court seat. Barrett’s confirmation – over the objections of Democrats – further entrenched the Supreme Court’s conservative majority.
Fifty-eight percent of likely voters questioned in a
 New York Times/Siena College 
national poll conducted Oct. 15-18, amid the general election and the fierce partisan battle over Barrett’s nomination, said Democrats should not expand the Supreme Court beyond its current nine justices, with 31% supportive of increasing the size of the court, and 11% undecided.
There was an extremely wide partisan divide in the poll, with Democrats backing court expansion by a 57%-28% margin, Republicans overwhelmingly opposed, 89%-6%, and independents also against, 65%-25%.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
According to an
 ABC News/Washington Post 
national poll conducted Sept. 21-24, in the days immediately after Ginsburg’s death, 54% of Americans opposed court packing, with 32% supportive of expanding the number of high court justices and 12% unsure.
The partisan gap wasn’t as wide in the ABC News/Washington Post survey as it was in the New York Times/Siena poll. Roughly 6 in 10 Republicans and independents opposed increasing the size of the Supreme Court, with Democrats backing the move by a 45%-39% plurality.
A
 Fox News Poll
 - conducted Oct. 3-6 - asked the straightforward question favored or opposed &#34;increasing the number of justices on the U.S. Supreme Court.&#34;
Forty-one percent opposed the idea and 39% favored the move.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
