
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
National correspondent Bryan Llenas reports on fentanyl smuggled across the border making its way into New York City.
House Democrats rejected several amendments in recent days that would have strengthened penalties for distributing fentanyl, as the deadly drug continues to spread havoc through the United States at record pace.
Last week, Democrats in the House Judiciary Committee blocked an amendment to H.R. 1693 that would have ensured that anyone convicted of fentanyl-related crimes would not receive a reduced sentence. 
SOUTH DAKOTA GOVERNOR ENCOUNTERS MIGRANTS CROSSING SOUTHERN BORDER WHILE VISITING NATIONAL GUARD
Among the Democrats who voted against the amendment were Rep. Jerry Nadler, Rep. Eric Swalwell, Rep. Lucy McBath, Rep. Cori Bush, and Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee. 
&#34;Today at a @JudiciaryGOP Markup I intro’d an amendment that would maintain penalties for any form of cocaine containing fentanyl/fentanyl analogues,&#34; Republican Congressman Scott Fitzgerald tweeted in response to the amendment failing. &#34;Democrats wanted to kick the can down the road. Why are they doing nothing to stop the flow of this deadly drug into the U.S.?&#34;
Fentanyl use in the United States has been directly tied to illegal immigration related to cartel influence from Mexico. Fox News 
reported
 last week that fentanyl seizures at the border have been surging — more than 1,000 pounds of fentanyl were seized at the border in June alone and seizures have risen 78% compared to last year.
BIDEN, HARRIS &#39;AWOL,&#39; LEAVING TEXANS TO FIGHT BORDER CRISIS ON THEIR OWN: REP. GONZALES
In another recent vote, Democrats 
blocked
 an amendment to 
H.R. 4435
 that would have allowed judges to increase sentencing to individuals involved in fraudulent immigration services if they are also involved in cartel activity. That amendment was opposed by every Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee. 
Earlier this month, House Democrats also 
blocked
 an amendment  that would prohibit funds from being used to implement a Biden executive order that would end contracts with privately owned detention facilities and redirect funds to the DEA to address the flood of Chinese fentanyl coming across the southern border.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In 2019, at least 50,000 Americans 
died 
as a result of an opioid overdose and that number 
surged
 to almost 70,000 in 2020. 
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
