
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki tells ‘Fox News Sunday’ the Biden administration is ‘committed’ to allowing media into Border Patrol facilities. 
A Democratic congressman has shared new photos of the overcrowded conditions at 
border
 facilities, where officials have been overwhelmed by a surge of 
migrants
 in recent months. 

      In a photo taken on March 27, 2021 two unaccompanied seven year-old child immigrants who arrived illegally across the Rio Grande river from Mexico stand at a makeshift processing checkpoint before being detained at a holding facility by border patrol agents in the border city of Roma. (Photo by Ed JONES / AFP) (Photo by ED JONES/AFP via Getty Images)
      
The photos, shared by Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Texas with CBS’ &#34;
Face the Nation
,&#34; show dozens of kids packed into glass-walled rooms, lying should-to-shoulder with foil blankets at a facility in 
Donna, Texas
. 
Cuellar, whose district lies in south Texas, sharing a border with 
Mexico
, said many of the migrant kids have been held &#34;for longer&#34; than the legal 72-hour limit. 
Under federal law, children arriving at the border without parents should be transferred within three days from U.S. Border Patrol custody to long-term facilities run by U.S. Health and Human Services until they can be released to family members or sponsors. 
BORDER CRISIS CAN BE &#39;FIXED&#39; IN A WEEK IF BIDEN RETURNS TO TRUMP IMMIGRATION POLICIES: SEN. KENNEDY
Cuellar said it has been nearly impossible to reduce the numbers at detention facilities and that border patrol officials are building new shelters to accommodate the numbers. 
&#34;The cities, the counties, the NGOs, we’re feeling the brunt of what’s happening with the family units,&#34; Cuellar said. 

      This March 20, 2021, photo provided by the Office of Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, shows detainees in a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) temporary overflow facility in Donna, Texas. 
      
(Photo courtesy of the Office of Rep. Henry Cuellar via AP)
More than 16,000 unaccompanied children were in government custody as of Thursday, including about 5,000 in substandard Customs and Border Protection facilities.
The 
Biden administration
 has faced criticism for not allowing the media to access Border Patrol facilities temporarily holding thousands of migrant children seeking to live in the United States.
BIDEN SPOKESWOMAN CALLS RECORD MIGRANT SURGE A &#39;CYCLICAL ISSUE,&#39; DENIES IT&#39;S WORSE THAN PRIOR YEARS
Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill have been calling on the administration to open the facilities to the cameras, asserting that the current policy is designed to keep the public from &#34;fully realizing&#34; what is happening at the border.
U.S. authorities reported encounters with more than 100,000 migrants on the southern border in February, the highest since a four-month streak in 2019. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Encounters have averaged about 5,000 people per day throughout March, which would be about a 50% increase over February if those figures hold for the entire month.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
