
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
California will become first U.S. state to require vaccinations for K-12 students. Dr. Houman Hemmati gives his take on &#39;Fox &amp; Friends First.&#39;
California
 Gov. 
Gavin Newsom
 last week signed a requirement for all eligible 
students
 to receive the 
COVID-19
 
vaccine
, even as his own daughter has yet to receive the shot. 
Newsom 
announced on Oct. 1
 that all students and school staff must be vaccinated by January 2022 – the first statewide mandate in the country. The order includes some exemptions – including one based on personal beliefs – but Newsom has not yet clarified the criteria for these exemptions. 
However, he did reveal that his own daughter, 12, has yet to receive the vaccine, 
The Los Angeles Times
 reported.
&#34;The Governor’s daughter only recently turned 12,&#34;  Newsom spokesperson Erin Mellon told Fox News. &#34;She has an appointment to be vaccinated in a manner of days.&#34;
PEOPLE ARE TURNING TO HORSE THERAPY TO IMPROVE MENTAL HEALTH DURING THE PANDEMIC
Newsom’s daughter turned 12 on Sept. 19, per 
Newsom&#39;s Twitter
, and is the oldest of Newsom’s four children. The FDA and CDC 
recommended in May 2021
 that the shot was safe for children ages 12 to 15 years old. 
Newsom initially told the Times that his daughter had &#34;a series of other shots&#34; to get first. 
The CDC notes that at the ages 11 to 12 years old a child should routinely receive the meningococcal vaccine (one dose), HPV vaccine (two doses), Tdap vaccine (one dose) and flu shot. Data suggests, though, that the COVID-19 vaccine 
is safe to receive at the same time
 as other vaccines. 
LA COUNTY SHERIFF ALEX VILLANUEVA SAYS HE WON&#39;T ENFORCE VACCINE MANDATE AT HIS AGENCY
&#34;There’s still a struggle to get to where we need to be,&#34; Newsom 
said
 about the effort to contain the pandemic. &#34;And that means we need to do more, and we need to do better.&#34;
Students who file for an exemption will not be allowed to enroll for in-person classes on campus, and Newsom’s children have attended in-person lessons in a private school since Oct. 2020, 
Politico reported
. 
Two of Newsom’s children – who were not identified – tested positive for COVID-19, but Newsom, his wife and the other two children tested negative.  Newsom has not said that his daughter had been infected when asked about plans to vaccinate her. 
NEWSOM SIGNS CONTROVERSIAL BILL REQUIRING ETHNIC STUDIES FOR ALL CA STUDENTS TO GRADUATE
Newsom has previously strayed from his own policies, such as his infamous fine-dining experience in 
The French Laundry
, a Napa Valley three Michelin star restaurant while most of the service industry remained 
under significant restrictions
.
He also pulled his children out of a mask-optional summer camp after at least one was photographed without a mask, 
The Washington Post reported
. The state had required masks for all children under the age of 12 years old in public settings since they are not eligible for the vaccine. 
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Mellon said at the time that the governor was &#34;concerned&#34; to see unvaccinated children maskless indoors and had &#34;missed&#34; emails from the camp that it would not enforce mask guidance. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
