
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Maryland 
Gov. 
Larry Hogan
 isn&#39;t letting his latest battle with cancer get him down.
&#34;No pain, no gain. Play like a Raven,&#34; Hogan tweeted Saturday following a procedure to remove 
cancerous
 cells from his face.
The tweet included a photo of himself with a bandage on one side of his face, giving a thumbs up while donning 
Baltimore Ravens
 gear ahead of the NFL team&#39;s playoff game against the Buffalo Bills (which Buffalo won 17-3).
Hogan, who celebrated five years of being cancer-free last summer following a battle with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma in 2015, was recently diagnosed with early-stage skin cancer known as basal and squamos cell carcinoma, FOX 5 in Washington, D.C., reported.
MARYLAND GOP GOVERNOR, LIEUTENANT WANT TRUMP TO RESIGN AFTER CAPITOL RIOT 
On Wednesday, the Republican governor called the outpatient procedure &#34;minor&#34; and said he likely wouldn’t need any more treatment, the Baltimore Sun reported.
&#39;DANCING WITH THE STARS&#39; JUDGE LEN GOODMAN REVEALS SKIN CANCER REMOVAL FROM FACE
Hogan had some skin removed a few weeks ago and in 2018. He said his most recent procedures were &#34;another pop-up of that stuff. But it’s nothing serious,&#34; 
the Sun reported.

      Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan is seen in Annapolis, Md., Jan. 7, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Hogan has managed to take care of his duties as governor despite the medical procedure. On Friday he declared a state of emergency in Maryland, which borders D.C., amid heightened security measures ahead of 
President-elect Joe Biden
’s inauguration Wednesday, according to 
FOX 5.
He previously called on 
President Trump
 to resign after the deadly riot at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
