
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News senior meteorologist Janice Dean calls out lack of coverage of scandal-plagued governor on &#39;Hannity&#39;
Federal investigators interviewed the chairman of the state Senate Health Committee as part of its probe into 
Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s
 
handling of nursing homes
 amid the coronavirus pandemic — including his 
$5.1 million book deal
, The Post has learned.
State Sen. Gustavo Rivera (D-The Bronx) said Tuesday that he was summoned to the FBI’s Brooklyn headquarters earlier this month and interviewed for nearly three hours by agents and prosecutors from the Brooklyn US Attorney’s Office.
&#34;We talked about a little bit of everything — mostly the governor’s interaction with the legislature throughout the pandemic,&#34; Rivera told The Post.

      Federal investigators interviewed the chairman of the state Senate Health Committee as part of its probe into Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s handling of nursing homes amid the coronavirus pandemic — including his $5.1 million book deal. (N. Scott Trimble/Syracuse Post-Standard via AP)
      
CUOMO MEDIA BLACKOUT: ABC, CBS, NBC AVOID $5M PAYOUT NY GOV IS SET TO RECEIVE FROM COVID BOOK
The investigators also asked Rivera for records to corroborate what he told them, he said.
Many questions involved the Cuomo administration’s cover-up of the total nursing home death toll from COVID-19, Rivera said.
In February, The Post exclusively revealed that top Cuomo aide Melissa DeRosa privately acknowledged during a video conference with Democratic state lawmakers that administration officials stonewalled them due to a potential investigation by the Justice Department.
Investigators also asked about Cuomo’s book deal for his pandemic memoir, &#34;American Crisis: Leadership Lessons from the COVID-19 Pandemic,&#34; but it was not a major focus, Rivera said.

      In February, the New York Post revealed that top Cuomo aide Melissa DeRosa privately acknowledged during a video conference with Democratic state lawmakers that administration officials stonewalled them due to a potential investigation by the Justice Department. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer, File)
      
The book quickly became a best-seller but tanked amid a string of sexual allegations against him earlier this year, after which Crown stopped promoting it, citing the federal nursing-home probe.
That report sparked the local probe, the New York Law Journal has reported, citing sources familiar with the matter.
Rivera said he was also asked about a provision in the state budget adopted in April 2020 that granted nursing homes and hospitals broad immunity from criminal prosecutions and civil lawsuits over their treatment of COVID-19 patients.
FIGHT OVER GOV. CUOMO ENDED ELISE STEFANIK AND MELISSA DEROSA’S 20-YEAR FRIENDSHIP
That move followed a controversial, March 25 directive from the state Health Department mandating that nursing homes accept &#34;medically stable&#34; coronavirus patients discharged from hospitals.
Critics have blamed that policy for spreading infections among highly vulnerable residents, and a recent study by the Empire Center for Public Policy has tied it to as many as 1,000-plus deaths.
On Monday, Cuomo made public tax returns that showed Crown Publishing Group paid him paid $3.12 million last year for the rights to his book and still owes him another $2 million, with $1 million due this year and $1 million due in 2022.
Cuomo donated $300,000 to the United Way, the tax returns show, and his accountants say he also donated another $200,000 that he couldn’t deduct this year due to a &#34;wiring issue.&#34;
The governor’s spokesman said the remainder of Cuomo’s &#34;net income&#34; last year from the book was put into a trust for his three daughters.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Brooklyn US Attorney’s Office and the FBI both declined to comment.
Cuomo’s office did not immediately return a request for comment.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
