
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Assistant Secretary of State Robert Charles weighs in on whether the incoming president’s speech can help unite the country.
Newly inaugurated
 President Joe Biden 
is enjoying a modest honeymoon as he begins his tenure in
 the White House.
Sixty-eight percent of Americans say they approve of how Biden’s handled his presidential transition, according to a 
Gallup national poll 
conducted Jan. 4-15. That’s a slight rise from a 65% approval in Gallup’s December poll.
CLICK HERE FOR FOX NEWS LIVE UPDATES ON THE BIDEN INAUGURATION
Biden’s transition approval is the same as fellow Democrat Bill Clinton when he was inaugurated as president in Jan. 1993, and slightly higher than the 61% approval Republican George W. Bush had in Gallup polling when he was sworn in as president in Jan. 2001.

      Joe Biden is sworn in as the 46th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts as Jill Biden holds the Bible during the 59th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 20, 2021.(Saul Loeb/Pool Photo via AP)
      
But Biden’s approval is far lower than the sky-high 83% transition approval 
Barack Obama
 enjoyed when he was inaugurated 12 years ago. And it towers over the 44% transition approval 
Donald Trump
 had in Gallup polling when he was inaugurated four years ago.
Biden’s also enjoying a slight tick up in his favorable ratings since his November presidential election victory.
TRUMP HINTS AT POLITICAL COMEBACK AS HE LEAVES THE WHITE HOUSE
The new president’s favorable rating stands at 59% in the latest
 CNN 
poll, up seven points since October. Biden’s favorable rating in the Gallup survey is 57%, edging up two points since November. It stands at 50% in latest 
USA Today/Suffolk University 
survey, up a point from last month, and at 49% in an 
NPR/PBS/Marist poll,
 also up two points.
But his favorable rating stood at 44% in the latest
 NBC News/Wall Street Journal
 poll, a one-point dip from October.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
