
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Republican Gov. Brian Kemp discusses the newly signed voting law in Georgia and the recovery effort after a tornado hit his state.
GOP 
Gov. Brian Kemp 
of 
Georgia 
urged 
Republicans 
to remain engaged as he formally launched his 2022 
reelection campaign
.
&#34;We need everyone engaged, because we know the Democrats are united,&#34; Kemp told a crowd of supporters Saturday at his campaign kickoff at the Georgia National Fairgrounds in Perry, a solidly conservative part of the Peach State.
GEORGIA GOV. KEMP TARGETS STACEY ABRAMS AND MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL IN NEW CAMPAIGN AD
Georgia was long a reliably red state. But now-
President Biden
 narrowly edged 
then-President Trump
 in Georgia in November, becoming the first Democrat to win the state in a presidential election in more than a quarter-century. And two months later, the Democrats swept the state’s twin Senate runoff contests, giving them the majority in the chamber.

      Republican Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia formally launches his 2022 reelection campaign at a kick off event in Perry, Georgia, on July 10, 2021
      
Kemp, working to shore up his base, closed his speech by arguing that the Democrats have overplayed their hand in Georgia. &#34;Make no mistake. They’re going to continue to cancel conservatives across the country,&#34; he said. &#34;They are trying to go after anyone in the country that doesn’t share their values.&#34;
In 2018, with the support of Trump, Kemp narrowly defeated Democratic voting rights champion and former state legislative leader Stacey Abrams to win the governorship. While she hasn’t announced her intentions, it’s very likely Abrams will run again for governor next year. 
KEMP VOWS TO SPOTLIGHT GEORGIA&#39;S NEW VOTING LAW AS HE RUNS FOR REELECTION
But as he runs for reelection, Kemp faces Trump’s wrath.
Trump has vowed to return to Georgia to campaign against Kemp, to punish his onetime ally for refusing to help the then-president’s efforts last year to overturn the 
election results
 in Georgia. The ballots in Georgia were counted three times – the original Election Day count, a mandatory hand recount and a recount requested by the president&#39;s campaign.
Trump refused to concede to Biden and claimed for two months that there was massive voter fraud in Georgia and five other states where Biden narrowly won. Dozens of legal challenges by Trump and his allies were shot down, and then-Attorney General William Barr said his Justice Department had not seen fraud on the kind of scale that could flip the election. Trump repeatedly attacked Kemp for refusing to aid his attempts to reverse Biden&#39;s victory.
At a rally in Georgia on the eve of the state’s twin Jan. 5 Senate runoff elections, Trump pledged, &#34;I&#39;ll be here in about a year and a half campaigning against your governor.&#34;
Kemp is now facing at least one primary challenge, from former state lawmaker Vernon Jones, a Democrat turned Republican and a leading Black Trump supporter in Georgia.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Jones announced this week that he brought in $650,000 in fundraising in the first 10 weeks of his campaign, which he touted was more than any other gubernatorial challenger at this point in a race in Georgia history.
Kemp also revealed his fundraising figures, announcing he hauled in $3.9 million over the past three months, with roughly $9.2 million in his campaign coffers with a year to go until the Georgia primary.
Rep. Nikema Williams, the chair of the Democratic Party of Georgia, responding to Kemp’s campaign launch, argued that &#34;with members of his own party rebuking him and his approval ratings among voters shaky at best, Brian Kemp is standing on thin ice from left to right as he prepares for a messy primary and an even tougher general election. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
