
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former La. governor Bobby Jindal reflects on his friendship with congressman-elect Luke Letlow, who died this week from complications due to coronavirus.
Former 
President Trump
 urged his supporters to back Julia Letlow Saturday in the special election 
House
 race in Louisana to succeed her late husband, Luke, who died after contracting 
coronavirus
. 
&#34;Julia Letlow is outstanding and so necessary to help save our Second Amendment, at the border, and for our military and vets,&#34; Trump wrote in a statement released Saturday. &#34;Louisiana, get out and vote today—she will never disappoint! Julia has my complete and total endorsement.&#34;
Trump had 
previously endorsed
 Letlow on March 10 and sought to boost her turnout Saturday with a fresh statement of support. 
The special election to fill out the remainder of Republican Luke Letlow&#39;s term is underway in the 5th congressional district. A total of 
12 candidates
 are in Saturday&#39;s race.
JULIA LETLOW, WIDOW OF GOP CONGRESSMAN-ELECT WHO DIED OF CORONAVIRUS, WILL RUN FOR CONGRESS
Luke Letlow died suddenly on Dec. 29, 2020, at the age of 41 from complications of coronavirus. He was to be sworn in on Jan. 3 to represent the 5th congressional district. He left behind his wife and two young children. 

      Julia Letlow, R-La., is running to succeed her late husband Luke Letlow who died Dec. 29, 2020, at the age of 41 from complications of coronavirus -- just days before he was to be sworn into office as the next congressman from Louisana&#39;s 5th congressional district.
      
(campaign)
Julia Letlow, a higher education professional, 
launched her congressional bid in January
 with a pledge to &#34;continue the mission Luke started -- to stand up for our Christian values, to fight for our rural agricultural communities, and to deliver real results to move our state forward,&#34; Letlow, R-La., said at the time.
LUKE LETLOW, 41-YEAR-OLD CONGRESSMAN-ELECT, DIES WITH COVID-19
Letlow cast her vote earlier Saturday with her children at her side. 
Voters in Louisana are also deciding who will succeed Democratic Rep. Cedric Richmond in the Second Congressional District. Richmond resigned to join the Biden Administration. 
In both of Saturday&#39;s races, the candidate receiving more than 50% of the vote will win. If no one breaks the majority threshold, the top two candidates will face-off in an April 24 runoff election.

      FILE - In this Jan. 3, 2019 file photo, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., poses during a ceremonial swearing-in with Rep. Ron Wright, R-Texas, fourth from right, on Capitol Hill in Washington during the opening session of the 116th Congress. Wright, the Texas Republican who had battled health challenges over the past year including lung cancer treatment died Sunday, Feb. 7, 2021, more than two weeks after contracting COVID-19, his office said Monday, Feb. 8. He was 67. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)
      
Letlow isn&#39;t the only coronavirus widow to run for her husband&#39;s seat.
WIDOW OF TEXAS CONGRESSMAN WHO DIED FROM COVID-19 TO SEEK HIS FORMER SEAT
In Texas&#39; 6th Congressional District, 
Susan Wright
 is running in the May 1 election to replace her late husband Rep. Ron Wright. The Republican died Feb. 7 after contracting coronavirus at the age of 67.
Fox News&#39; Evie Fordham contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
