
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Georgia
 Gov. 
Brian Kemp
 on Friday issued an executive order lifting most of the state&#39;s remaining 
COVID-19
 restrictions, a little more than a year after the pandemic started, according to reports.
The 28-page order lifts capacity restrictions on movie theaters and other large venues, ends requirements for restaurants to space out tables and for employees to wear masks and removes restrictions for places like gyms and barbershops, FOX 5 in Atlanta reported.
Mercedes-Benz Stadium, home of the NFL&#39;s Atlanta Falcons, and Truist Park, home of MLB&#39;s Atlanta Braves, said they will be at full capacity by mid-May and the Atlanta Motor Speedway plans to pack the stands once again this July for the NASCAR Quaker State 400, 
FOX 5 
reported.
Kemp urged Georgians to still follow the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines that say fully vaccinated adults can gather indoors without masks two weeks after the second dose but people should wear masks when attending crowded events.
GEORGIA GOV. KEMP ARGUES BIDEN SPENDING PLANS &#39;A YEAR LATE&#39; AS STATES REOPEN

      Brian Kemp, governor of Georgia, speaks during a news conference in Hapeville, Georgia, Feb. 25, 2021. (Getty Images)
      
More than 100 million Americans have been fully vaccinated, the White House announced Friday but a large number remain skeptical and haven’t made an appointment yet.
&#34;I want to continue to urge people to get vaccinated,&#34; Kemp said last week, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. &#34;It’s our ticket back to normal, when you think about people getting back into the Braves’ stadium, college football this fall, people going on vacation.&#34;
Last month, Kemp signed an order ending the ban on large gatherings and other restrictions.
The 
Journal-Constitution
 reported that Friday’s order was mostly &#34;symbolic&#34; because the restrictions had mainly not been enforced.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Manuel’s Tavern owner Brian Maloof told 
WSB-TV
 in Atlanta he’s glad Kemp has lifted the restrictions but said he doesn’t want a resurgence of the virus &#34;so we’re going to continue to play it super safe at Manuel’s.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
