
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
A third woman accuses N.Y. Gov. Andrew Cuomo of sexual harassment. Attorney Remi Spencer reacts.
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo
 is facing mounting calls for his resignation, an independent investigation and a move to rescind his emergency coronavirus powers amid dueling scandals over allegations of 
improper behavior
 toward women and his handling of the 
nursing home
 crisis during the 
coronavirus pandemic
.
&#34;A year into the pandemic, and as New Yorkers receive the vaccine, the temporary emergency powers have served their purpose – it is time for them to be repealed,&#34; State Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said in a statement.
TRUMP JR. ASKS IF CUOMO PUBLISHER WILL CANCEL BOOK CONTRACT: &#39;WHAT ARE THE RULES?&#39;
Former Cuomo aide 
Lindsey Boylan
, 36, has 
accused the governor
 of unwanted touching and kissing. After her bombshell essay on 
Medium
, another former aide, Charlotte Bennett, 
also came forward
 with sexual harassment allegations, claiming she was 25 years old at the time. A third woman with no workplace ties to the governor, Anna Ruch, accused him this week of making unwanted sexual advances and touching her at a 2019 wedding.
CUOMO HIRES CRIMINAL DEFENSE LAWYER AFTER SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS, NURSING HOME SCANDAL
A spokesperson for the governor reportedly referred The Times to Cuomo&#39;s 
statement issued Sunday
, in which he said some of the things he&#39;s said in the past &#34;have been misinterpreted as an unwanted flirtation.&#34; Cuomo&#39;s office has also denied Boylan&#39;s harassment claims, calling them &#34;simply false.&#34;
Lawmakers have called for independent 
investigations
 and the resignation of Cuomo, 63, including 
several members of the Democratic party
.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Follow below for more updates on the dueling scandals. 
Mobile users click here.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
