
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former FBI Assistant Director Chris Swecker discusses inauguration security preparations on ‘America’s News HQ.’
Vice President-elect 
Kamala Harris
 will resign her 
Senate
 seat on Monday – two days before she and President-elect 
Joe Biden
 are sworn in on 
Inauguration Day
.
Harris’ stepping down will allow California Gov. 
Gavin Newsom
 to appoint 
Alex Padilla
, a 
Democrat
 who serves as secretary of state, to fill the final two years of her vacated position.

      FILE: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris speaks as she and President-elect Joe Biden introduce their nominees and appointees to key national security and foreign policy posts at The Queen theater, in Wilmington, Del. 
      
(AP)
&#34;She’s notified Gov. Newsom, and has sent her formal indication that she will be resigning. And then she will make a formal announcement on Monday,&#34; said a Harris aide, 
The Hill reported
 on Sunday.
Padilla will become the first Latino senator from the 
Golden State
.
Harris will not give a farewell speech on the Senate floor because the chamber is not expected to convene until Tuesday.
VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT HARRIS WILL BE SWORN IN BY JUSTICE SONIA SOTOMAYOR
As vice president, Harris will be poised to cast any tie-breaking votes in the Senate that will be split 50-50 after Democrats 
Jon Ossoff and the Rev. Raphael Warnock
 are seated in the chamber.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
They defeated incumbent GOP Sens. David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler in a highly contested 
Senate runoff election
 in 
Georgia
 earlier this month.
To read more from The New York Post, 
click here
. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
