
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Economist, John Jordan, joins Molly Line on &#39;Fox Report Weekend&#39; to discuss the concerns involving the social media giant.
The Chinese-owned social media platform TikTok has reached an agreement with the White House to drop a lawsuit challenging former President Donald Trump’s attempt to ban the video app from app stores in the United States.
A 
filing
 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia shows that both sides mutually agreed that the suit should not move forward and instead be dismissed.
&#39;CREAMY LEMONADE&#39; TREND IS TAKING OVER TIKTOK: TRY THE RECIPE
In 2020, then-President Trump 
issued
 an executive order that aimed to ban the social media app in the United States, arguing that it posed a national security threat because the Chinese government was gathering user data through the platform.
&#34;This data threatens to allow the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) access to Americans’ personal and proprietary information – potentially allowing China to track the locations of Federal employees and contractors, build dossiers of personal information and blackmail, and conduct corporate espionage,&#34; the order said.
RISKY &#39;HACK&#39; WHERE PEOPLE PUT GARLIC UP NOSTRILS HAS EXPERTS SLAMMING THE TIKTOK TREND
ByteDance, the Chinese company that owns TikTok, then 
sued
 the Trump administration in response to the executive order.
Last month, President Biden 
rescinded
 Trump’s executive order and announced his administration would conduct its own investigation into potential national security concerns posed by the platform.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It is estimated that TikTok has about 80 million users in the United States alone.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
