
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Bay Head, New Jersey Police Chief Billy Hoffman shares his concerns on new law which will prohibit officers from notifying parents of children involved in drug possession.
The White House revealed that a handful of staffers were let go over past pot use, even though 
Vice President Kamala Harris
 has publicly admitted to smoking 
weed
 in college.
Then-senator Harris, who was also a 2020 presidential candidate, supported legalizing marijuana at the federal level in 2019, saying that she smoked pot in college 
during an interview
 with a radio program hosted by DJ Envy, Angela Yee and Charlamagne tha God.
&#34;I have [smoked marijuana]. And I inhaled. I did inhale,&#34; Harris said. &#34;I think it gives a lot of people joy. And we need more joy in the world.&#34;
5 BIDEN WHITE HOUSE STAFFERS HAVE LOST JOBS OVER PAST MARIJUANA USE, SAYS PSAKI
Harris did clarify that she used the drug &#34;a long time ago&#34; during the interview and that more research needs to be done on the effects of marijuana on young developing brains.
As 
previously reported by Fox News
, White House press secretary Jen Psaki confirmed that five White House staffers had been let go by the current administration for past marijuana use, which remains illegal under federal law.
Psaki also said, however, that the administration updated its policies to ensure that past marijuana use wouldn’t automatically disqualify staff or potential hires, which she indicated would represent a shift from past administrations.
Psaki linked to new guidelines reported by 
NBC
, which indicated the White House will review instances on a case-by-case basis and provide exemptions for people who have used the drug on a &#34;limited&#34; basis and are in positions that don’t require a security clearance.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Harris generally sits in on the sensitive President&#39;s Daily Brief given to Biden several days a week.
A number of states have already decriminalized recreational marijuana use.
In 
December
, the House of Representatives passed a bill that would decriminalize marijuana. There is a similar ongoing effort among members of the party to move legislation in the current Congress as well.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
