
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
OutKick.com founder Clay Travis joins Shannon Bream for a ‘lightning round’ on ‘FOX News @ Night’
In 2017, former President Trump warned that the push to erase memorials of controversial historical figures would eventually impact former presidents like the nation&#39;s first, George Washington.
Towards the end of his administration, that actually happened. The nation saw both raucus demonstrations and government decisions in favor of censoring former presidents.
Here&#39;s a list of those affected:
George Washington
 -- America&#39;s first president, and perhaps the most well-known founding father, was one of the many historical figures targeted by the San Francisco School Board. Last month, the board voted 6-1 to 
remove
 Washington&#39;s name from a school in the district. Protesters also 
toppled
 a statue of Washington during racially-charged demonstrations last year. 
SAN FRANCISCO SCHOOL BOARD VOTES TO RENAME SCHOOLS HONORING WASHINGTON, LINCOLN, FEINSTEIN, OTHERS
Thomas Jefferson
 -- Jefferson was America&#39;s third president, the first U.S. secretary of state, second vice president, and he penned the Declaration of Independence. Regardless, he joined other American icons in becoming a target of San Francisco&#39;s school board. Like Washington, Jefferson owned slaves and came under fire during demonstrations last year.
In June, for example, Hofstra University said it would remove a Jefferson statue from a prominent campus thoroughfare following a 2018 petition making that demand. A task force in Washington, D.C., also caused an uproar last year when it suggested the federal government should &#34;remove, relocate, or contextualize&#34; the Jefferson Memorial. It also proposed removing the founding father&#39;s name from a school.
Andrew Jackson
 -- This former president has long been criticized for forcibly relocating Native Americans in the 
Trail of Tears
, during which thousands died. Earlier this week, news 
surfaced
 that Jackson&#39;s name would be removed from a school in South Philadelphia.
Abraham Lincoln
 -- The president who won the Civil War and signed the Emancipation Proclamation, which declared slaves in rebellious states to be free, hasn&#39;t escaped cancel culture either. He recently 
came under fire
 for allowing 38 Native Americans to be hanged in a mass execution. San Francisco&#39;s school board voted to remove Lincoln&#39;s name from one of its schools. Another 
statue 
of Lincoln was removed from Boston last year. It featured the 16th president standing with a freed slave kneeling at his feet.
Ulysses S. Grant
 -- Protesters in San Francisco also 
toppled
 a statue of Ulysses S. Grant, the 18th U.S. president and general who led the North during the Civil War.
Theodore Roosevelt
 -- For years, the 26th president of the United States has been featured in a controversial statue outside of the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. The statue showed Roosevelt on a horse flanked by an indigenous person and an African. Mayor Bill De Blasio announced last year that he would remove that statue after the museum requested he do so. &#34;The American Museum of Natural History has asked to remove the Theodore Roosevelt statue because it explicitly depicts Black and Indigenous people as subjugated and racially inferior,&#34; he said. &#34;It is the right decision and the right time to remove this problematic statue.&#34;
Woodrow Wilson -- 
One of the nation&#39;s top schools, Princeton University, announced last year that it would remove the name of Wilson, a former student and president of the school, from one of its schools. &#34;We have taken this extraordinary step because we believe that Wilson’s racist thinking and policies make him an inappropriate namesake for a school whose scholars, students, and alumni must be firmly committed to combatting the scourge of racism in all its forms,&#34; a university statement 
read.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
James Monroe, Herbert Hoover, James Garfield, William McKinley 
-- Each of these former presidents was included among the names to be removed from 44 schools in San Francisco. The renaming was 
aimed
 at individuals who &#34;engaged in the subjugation and enslavement of human beings; or who oppressed women, inhibiting societal progress; or whose actions led to genocide; or who otherwise significantly diminished the opportunities of those amongst us to the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
