
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The Supreme Court says they won&#39;t expedite House committee cases aimed at getting access to President Trump&#39;s financial records.
The U.S. Treasury Department must grant former 
President Trump
’s lawyers a 72-hour warning if it allows his 
tax 
returns to be released to Democrats, a judge ruled Friday, according to a report.
U.S. Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, is still seeking the returns after he was refused access to them in 2019 by then-Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who claimed Democrats didn’t have a &#34;legitimate legislative purpose&#34; for the request, Politico reported.
Neal had cited a law that requires the Treasury to turn over tax documents at the request of House tax committees.
Democrats sued in federal court in a case that is still pending a year and a half later.
NEW YORK TIMES AND TRUMP TAXES: WHY IT&#39;S NOT A CAMPAIGN BOMBSHELL
Washington, D.C., District Court Judge Trevor McFadden, a Trump appointee, put the two-week order in place because the Treasury Department could reverse course under the new 
Biden 
administration.
He also ordered both sides to give a status report on Feb. 3.
The nomination of 
President Biden
&#39;s Treasury secretary pick, former Federal Reserve boss 
Janet Yellen
, was unanimously approved by the Senate Finance Committee on Friday and now heads to the full Senate for a vote Monday. 
WHO IS JANET YELLEN, BIDEN&#39;S PICK TO LEAD THE TREASURY? 
Douglas Letter, general counsel for the House, told McFadden in the hearing that Treasury has a &#34;clear legal obligation&#34; to turn over the documents that Democrats still want even though he’s out of office, according to 
Politico
. &#34;Our feeling is enough is enough. The statute is clear,&#34; he said. 
It’s unclear if the Treasury Department under Biden will allow the House access to the returns.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Democrats and the district attorney of New York City are also seeking his tax returns in separate cases.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
