
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Vice President 
Kamala Harris 
laid flowers Wednesday at the 
Hanoi
 memorial site where late Sen. John McCain was 
shot down
 in 1967 by the North 
Vietnamese 
when he was a 
Navy
 fighter pilot.
Standing in the pouring rain, Harris noted that Wednesday marked three years since McCain died from brain cancer on Aug. 25, 2018. 
The vice president visited the memorial after concluding her bilateral meetings with Vietnam’s Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh and President Ngyuen Xuan Phuc, part of her one-week trip through Southeast Asia. 
McCain was held as a prisoner of war for more than five years in Vietnam where he was sometimes tortured and kept in solitary confinement until his release in 1973. 

      Wednesday marks three years since U.S. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., died from a bout with cancer. (Getty Images)
      
KAMALA HARRIS ARRIVES IN VIETNAM AFTER DELAY OVER POSSIBLE ‘HAVANA SYNDROME’ CASE
He later represented Arizona in Congress, first in the House and then later in the Senate, from 1987 until his death. 
McCain and 
President Biden
 met in the Senate and remained close friends for the rest of McCain’s life. Biden also eulogized McCain at his funeral. 

      U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris lays flowers at the Senator John McCain memorial site, where his Navy aircraft was shot down by the North Vietnamese, on the three-year anniversary of his death, in Hanoi, Vietnam, Wednesday, Aug. 25, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
Harris was in Singapore and Vietnam this week to reaffirm the U.S.’s commitment to the region and counter China’s influence there. 

      U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris lays flowers at the Senator John McCain memorial site, where his Navy aircraft was shot down by the North Vietnamese, on the three-year anniversary of his death, in Hanoi, Vietnam, Wednesday, Aug. 25, 2021. (Evelyn Hockstein/Pool Photo via AP)
      
Harris also announced during one of the meetings that the U.S. would be
 donating an additional 1 million Pfizer coronavirus vaccine doses
 – on top of 5 million already donated -- to the country whose citizens are only 2% vaccinated. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Her visit falls against the backdrop of the U.S. military’s frantic effort to evacuate people from 
Afghanistan 
amid the Taliban’s takeover that occurred as Biden ordered troops withdrawn. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
