
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Florida Congressman Michael Waltz reacts to Jennifer Granholm’s comments distancing herself from Biden waiving sanctions on Russian pipeline. 
A top 
Energy Department
 official is facing accusations of a potential conflict of interest, after a watchdog group said she had suggested a pattern of advancing the interests of an energy association of which she is a former CEO.
Kelly Speakes-Backman, who serves as acting Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, is a former CEO of the Energy Storage Association. 
ENERGY SECRETARY GRANHOLM DIVESTS FROM ELECTRIC VEHICLE COMPANY: REPORTS
Protect the Public’s Trust, a watchdog that identifies potential conflicts of interest, 
has written
 to the Energy Department’s general counsel pointing to an April 16  panel on energy storage technology, in which it says Speakes-Backman &#34;unnecessarily made multiple mentions of her former employer and implied her involvement in a major program initiative that would likely financially benefit her former employer and its members.&#34;
The letter, first reported by 
The Washington Free Beacon
, points to a number of remarks she made referencing her former employer, as well as policy goals of the DOE that the watchdog says are similar to initiatives proposed by the ESA.
&#34;Back in December 2020, when I was still with the Energy Storage Association, DOE published the energy storage grand challenge road map,&#34; she said at the event
&#34;I’m stealing this a little bit from my days at Energy Storage Association but [energy storage] really does provide a more resilient, efficient, sustainable, and affordable grid,&#34; she says at another point.
The watchdog says that her comments &#34;mentioning the Energy Storage Association by name while speaking in her official capacity at an event centered around the very products and services the entity and its members sell and/or advocate could be or perceived to be an endorsement of that entity by the Department of Energy.&#34;
The watchdog’s letter also flags comments made at the panel by a member of the ESA, who says it will be difficult to refer to the Speakes-Backman by her official title as he has worked with her closely for years.
GRANHOLM&#39;S INVESTMENT IN ELECTRIC VEHICLE BATTERY COMPANY SPARKS CONCERN
PPT also points to other events that suggest a conflict of interest, including another April event at which Speakes-Backman gave a keynote address. The sponsor of her keynote address was a &#34;leadership circle member&#34; of the ESA.
&#34;Viewed in light of the previous events discussed in this letter, Ms. Speakes-Backman’s public appearances suggest a pattern of advancing the interests of her former employers and potentially endorsing them,&#34; the letter says. &#34;At the very least, her participation contributes to a perception that she may not be fully consulting with the Department’s Ethics Office or providing sufficient information in order to receive appropriate guidance and counseling prior to accepting such invitations.&#34; 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Department of Energy did not respond to a request for comment from Fox News.
Rep. Ralph Norman, R-S.C. expressed concern to the Free Beacon about the links between Speakes-Backman and the Energy Storage Association.
&#34;As more details continue to present themselves, we need to ensure complete transparency,’ he told the outlet. &#34;It is imperative that the American people understand that their leaders have their best interest in mind.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
