
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
All city workers must report their vaccine status by Oct. 15
A billboard has popped up in 
New York City
’s Times Square hammering President 
Joe Biden
 over his support of coronavirus vaccine mandates.
&#34;Hey Joe, time to let the mandate go,&#34; the Times Square sign, funded by the conservative advocacy group Job Creators Network, reads. &#34;Stop making small businesses your vaccine police.&#34;
FLORIDA FINES COUNTY $3.5M FOR VIOLATING VACCINE MANDATE BAN
In a 
press release
, the group said that the sign comes as a direct response to Biden’s controversial 
announcement
 in September that he is instructing the federal government to mandate all companies with over 100 employees require their employees to be vaccinated against the coronavirus.
&#34;Small businesses are facing the most challenging period in decades,&#34; Alfredo Ortiz, JCN President and CEO, said in the press release. &#34;Now, Biden’s vaccine mandate threatens to dump fuel on the raging economic dumpster fire with his de facto nationwide vaccine mandate, which will only exacerbate already crippling labor shortages for small businesses.&#34;
VACCINE MANDATES COULD LEAD TO POLICE AND FIREFIGHTER EXODUSES IN URBAN AREAS
Ortiz added, &#34; Main Street will also be enlisted as foot soldiers to carry out and pay for the overreach of executive power. It’s one thing for a private company to require staff to be vaccinated, but it’s a whole other ballgame when the government mandates it and then forces employers to police and pay for it. JCN is ready to take legal action against the Biden administration on behalf of small businesses if the White House doesn’t change course.&#34;
Vaccine mandates across the country have sparked outrage from many Americans including healthcare workers, federal employees,  police
,
 and firefighters, many of whom have decided to leave the force rather than submit to the requirement.
Hundreds of 
Michigan
 healthcare workers 
quit
 their jobs rather than take the vaccine. A dozen 
Massachusetts
 state troopers have recently 
stepped down
 as a result of vaccine mandates and many 
believe
 a mass exodus of police officers and firefighters will take place if the mandates continue.
In 
Los Angeles
, 895 city fire personnel, a majority of them firefighters, have signed an intent to sue the city of Los Angeles if they are terminated without due process for not being 
vaccinated
 by the Oct. 19 deadline. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
White House Press Secretary 
dismissed
 concerns that vaccine mandates would force employees to leave their jobs and harm the economy on Tuesday saying that mandates are ultimately &#34;good&#34; for the economy.
The share of American workers voluntarily quitting their jobs 
soared
 to a record high in August rising by 242,000 to 4.3 million amounting to an overall quit rate of 2.9%.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
