
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The Pentagon said Thursday that defense contractors and their employees, including those in Texas, would be required to get a 
COVID-19
 vaccine, despite an order from Republican Gov. Greg Abbott banning vaccine mandates in the Lone Star State.
According to the Pentagon, 
federal guidance
 trumps that of state and local laws, including the 
executive order
 issued by Abbott that prevents &#34;any entity&#34; in the state from enforcing a COVID-19 vaccine mandate.
&#34;These requirements are promulgated pursuant to federal law and supersede any contrary state or local law or ordinance,&#34; the federal guidance states. &#34;Additionally, nothing in the task force guidance shall excuse noncompliance with any applicable state law or municipal ordinance establishing more protective workplace safety protocols than those established under the task force guidance.&#34;
VACCINE MANDATES COULD LEAD TO POLICE AND FIREFIGHTER EXODUSES IN URBAN AREAS
The vaccine mandate directly impacts thousands of employees working for federal contractors operating out of Texas, including the aerospace and defense industry, which employs more than 148,000 in the state, according to the 
Texas Economic Development Corporation
 (TEDC).
Last month, the White House said federal contractors must have a COVID-19 vaccine by Dec. 8. 
In an attempt to justify the mandate for federal contractors, Jason Miller, deputy White House Office of Management and Budget director, 
said
 last month that the vaccine requirement &#34;will decrease worker absence, reduce labor costs and improve the efficiency of contractors and subcontractors performing work for the federal government,&#34; according to Reuters.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Following Biden&#39;s executive order on vaccine mandates for federal contractors, Boeing 
announced
 this week that it will comply and require its more than 125,000 employees to be vaccinated or risk losing their jobs.
Earlier this month, the Department of Defense announced in a memo that its more than 700,000 civilian employees must be vaccinated against the coronavirus by late November.
&#34;All DoD civilian employees must be fully vaccinated by November 22, 2021, subject to exemptions as required by law,&#34; the memo, signed by Deputy Defense Secretary Kathleen Hicks, stated.
Other prominent contractors in Texas include Lockheed Martin, Raytheon Technologies and L3Harris Technologies.
Gov. Abbott&#39;s office could not be reached immediately for comment.
Kyle Morris covers politics for Fox News and is a graduate of the University of Alabama. Follow him on Twitter: 
@RealKyleMorris
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
