
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Louisiana
 state Sen. Troy Carter will represent the state&#39;s 2nd Congressional District on 
Capitol Hill
 following a 
victory
 over state Senate colleague Karen Carter Peterson in a special runoff election Saturday.
Carter&#39;s victory was confirmed by The Associated Press.
&#34;I will wake up every day with you on my mind, on my heart, and I will work for you tirelessly,&#34; Carter told supporters. &#34;The work begins tomorrow.&#34;
He won with 55.2% of the vote to Peterson&#39;s 44.8%, with Carter getting 9,216 more votes than Peterson, according to the Washington Post. 
LOUISIANA DEMOCRATS&#39; VICTORY IN SATURDAY&#39;S CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION A DONE DEAL
Carter and Peterson were the top two vote-getters in a March 20 special election to succeed U.S. Rep. Cedric Richmond, who stepped down from his seat to take a role in the Biden administration as the White House’s director of public engagement. The race proceeded to a runoff because neither candidate earned at least 50% of the vote.

      Louisiana state Sen. Troy Carter is seen in his office in New Orleans, Jan. 26, 2021. (Associated Press)
      
The vote followed a contentious campaign for the two candidates, each of whom previously staged unsuccessful bids for the second Congressional district seat. Carter aligned with the moderate wing of the Democratic party, securing endorsements from Richmond as well as House Majority Whip James Clyburn of South Carolina.
CALIFORNIA MAY LOSE CONGRESSIONAL SEAT FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY
Peterson positioned herself as more progressive than her Democratic rival, suggesting Carter of seeking support from Republicans to boost his candidate. She received endorsements from several prominent progressives, including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams.

      Karen Carter Peterson concedes the election for Louisiana&#39;s Second Congressional District Saturday, April 24, 2021 at Central City BBQ in New Orleans. (Associated Press)
      
Peterson conceded less than two hours after the polls closed and told voters she would &#34;keep swinging hard for the people&#34; from the state Senate. &#34;I can still do a lot in the role I have.&#34; 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Both candidates shared many of the same views on policy, such as support for an increased federal minimum wage and law enforcement reform.
The election result adds to the Democratic Party’s slim majority in the lower chamber. Prior to Louisiana’s special election, the House had a total of five vacancies, including Richmond’s seat.
The Democrats currently hold 219 seats in the House, while the GOP holds 212.  
Fox News&#39; Brie Stimson and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
