
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The Senate approved a bill that would require the Biden administration and the director of national intelligence to declassify intelligence on the origins of 
COVID-19
 by unanimous consent Wednesday evening.
&#34;The American people deserve to know about the origins of COVID-19,&#34; Missouri Republican Sen. Josh Hawley said on the Senate floor before the bill passed. &#34;They deserve to know how this terrible pandemic that has ravaged the globe and our country, how it got started, and what 
China’s
 role was in starting it.&#34;
He said that voters deserved to see the evidence and judge for themselves, rather than different speculation from various administration officials on where the virus may have come from.
BIDEN: INTEL TORN ‘BETWEEN TWO LIKELY SCENARIOS’ ON COVID-19 SOURCE 
&#34;Whether it’s weighing in on issues of health care, national security, COVID-19, who disagrees with transparency?&#34; asked Indiana Republican Sen. Mike Braun. &#34;The sunshine reveals everything.&#34;

      President Biden boards Marine One on the Ellipse near the White House, Friday, May 7, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky)
      
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky)
Braun noted that even Dr. Anthony Fauci, who has headed the U.S. coronavirus response through two presidential administrations, has called for transparency surrounding the origins of the virus.
In a statement before the vote, Biden said intelligence leaders were weighing two possible scenarios – that the virus either leapt to a human from contact with an infected animal or that it accidentally leaked from a laboratory in Wuhan, China.
The so-called lab-leak theory, initially derided by critics of the Trump administration as a conspiracy theory and 
censored on Facebook
 between February and Wednesday, has gained traction in recent days amid a lack of evidence for other origins of the coronavirus.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
This week, Fox News learned from a Trump-era State Department official that several workers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology fell ill in mid-November 2019, a month before COVID-19 was first reported in the city. The official claimed to have been in touch with those contacts at the time and said colleagues also had been in communication about the issue.
The Wall Street Journal, citing previously undisclosed U.S. Intelligence, reported that the workers showed coronavirus-like symptoms and required hospital care.
Fox News’ Morgan Phillips and Kelly Phares contributed to this report.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
