
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News correspondent Claudia Cowen has the latest on the attack amid the Newsom recall effort on &#39;The Story&#39;
Los Angeles
 County Sheriff 
Alex Villanueva
 called an egg-throwing attack this week on Black Republican recall candidate 
Larry Elder
 by a White woman wearing a gorilla mask a hate crime and blamed &#34;woke privilege&#34; for liberal silence on the issue.
&#34;QUESTION: How is this not a hate crime? ANSWER: Because &#34;woke privilege&#34; means a white woman can wear a gorilla mask and attack a black man without fear of being called a racist. Where is the outrage from our politicians?&#34; Villanueva, a Democrat, tweeted on Thursday. 
Villanueva said he plans to investigate the attack as a hate crime because the woman wore a gorilla mask, the 
Washington Examiner
 reported. 
Elder, the Republican frontrunner in the election that could remove Democratic Gov. 
Gavin Newsom
 from office next week, was hurried out of the Venice area of Los Angeles on Wednesday when the campaign stop turned confrontational near a homeless encampment. He was heckled and the gorilla-masked woman on a bicycle just missed his head with the projectile. Elder said some of the hecklers yelled racial epithets. 

      VENICE, CA. September 8, 2021:Republican gubernatorial candidate Larry Elder is escorted by a security guard as a few homeless people yell during a tour in Venice Wednesday. (Wally Skalij/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)
      
(Wally Skalij/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)
Newsom has 
remained silent 
on the attack and has yet to respond to Fox News&#39; question on whether he would condemn the attack.
LARRY ELDER SAYS ‘RACIAL EPITHETS WERE YELLED DURING EGG ATTACK, CALLS OUT LIBERAL SILENCE 
No arrests have been made yet.  
The candidate himself wasn’t so quick to label the egg thrower racist. 
&#34;I’m not somebody who pulls out the race card the way Barack Obama does, the way Al Sharpton does, the way CNN does, the way Black Lives Matter does,&#34; Elder told Fox News on Thursday. &#34;Maybe it was just an idiot. Maybe it was just a fool. Maybe it was just someone who doesn’t like Larry Elder.&#34;
&#34;All I know is: if I were a liberal and somebody wearing a gorilla mask who was a White woman threw an egg at me, the left would be screaming about systemic racism,&#34; he continued.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Los Angeles Police Departments’ Robbery-Homicide Division is also investigating because of its high-profile nature, according to the 
Los Angeles Times. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
