
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
San Francisco
 Mayor London Breed has agreed to pay a $22,792 city fine issued by the city&#39;s 
Ethics Commission
 for several ethics violations committed while in office, according to reports. 
Breed agreed to pay the fine for incidents that shed a light on the mayor&#39;s personal and 
political
 dealings, the San Francisco Chronicle reported. 
The commission called the violations &#34;significant,&#34; saying they involved the misuse of her title as mayor for personal benefit.
The allegations included asking former 
California
 Gov. Jerry Brown to release her brother from prison after a manslaughter conviction, allowing the former head of Public Works Mohammed Nuru to pay for her car repairs, and accepting but not reporting donations for a float she entered in the city&#39;s annual Pride parade, FOX 2 of the San Francisco Bay Area reported. 
SAN FRANCISCO ACTIVISTS GATHER AT PELOSI&#39;S HOME TO SERVE ‘EVICTION NOTICE’
In a statement Tuesday, Breed called the terms &#34;fair,&#34; according to the Chronicle. 
&#34;There were mistakes made,&#34; Breed said at a news conference. &#34;I take full responsibility for those mistakes and I’ve learned a lot since becoming mayor and being in office. At no time have any of the things related to the stipulation had any impact on my decisions as mayor.&#34;
&#34;There were mistakes made. I take full responsibility for those mistakes and I’ve learned a lot since becoming mayor and being in office.&#34;

      Mayor London Breed speaks at a rally in San Francisco on March 13, 2021.  (Associated Press)
      
The settlement comes about three years after Breed and family members sent a letter to Brown asking him to release her brother, Napoleon Brown, who is about halfway through a 44-year sentence for involuntary manslaughter and armed robbery. In the October 2018 letter, Breed said her brother’s punishment had been excessive. 
Brown did not grant the release request, but the Ethics Commission said Breed’s letter was a misuse of her city title, the Chronicle 
reported
. She will be fined $2,500 for the letter.
Breed also agreed to pay $8,292 for accepting a gift from Nuru in 2019. The Chronicle reported that Breed acknowledged Nuru paid for her car repairs just weeks after he was charged by the FBI for fraud. According to the commission, she violated city laws that forbid accepting gifts from subordinates.
FORMER SAN FRANCISCO MAYORAL CANDIDATE ON CRIME SURGE: CITY TOTALLY CONTROLLED BY ‘LEFT-WING IDEALOGUES’
In 2015, while Breed was a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and running for re-election, she wanted to have a float created to ride in during the annual San Francisco Pride Parade. According to the stipulation, Breed asked two restaurateurs to each pay $1,250 directly to the float manufacturer.
The Ethics Commission deemed the payments to be over the $500 campaign contribution limit and not properly recorded in campaign finance disclosures, according to the Chronicle. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;By soliciting and accepting excess contributions, and by failing to disclose the contributions received on her committee’s campaign disclosure statements, Breed violated candidate contribution limit and campaign disclosure requirements of city law,&#34; the agreement said.
Breed was fined $7,500 for failing to disclose the contributions and $4,500 for accepting contributions over the legal limit.
The mayor said she would personally pay the fine if approved by the Ethics Commission at its next meeting on Aug. 13.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
