
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News contributor Joe Concha and Democratic strategist Kevin Walling join &#39;Fox News @ Night&#39; to play &#39;Who Said It?&#39;
MONTGOMERY, Ala. — 
Alabama
 Secretary of State 
John Merrill
, a prominent state 
Republican
 viewed as having higher political ambitions, said Wednesday that he will not run for any elected office next year because of poor choices he made that have impacted his family.
&#34;I will not be a candidate because of choices I have made and the decisions I have made that were not in the best interest of me or my family,&#34; Merrill, 57, told The Associated Press in a phone interview. Merrill declined to go into much detail but had told media outlet 
al.com
 that he had an inappropriate relationship with a woman outside his marriage.
Merrill announced his decision in a statement issued from his office. The announcement ended speculation that Merrill might run for the U.S. Senate or another position next year.
TRUMP ENDORSES MO BROOKS IN ALABAMA SENATE RACE
In 2019, Merrill 
announced
 a run for Alabama&#39;s other 
U.S. Senate
 seat, but dropped out after Jeff Sessions, a onetime U.S. attorney general under then-
President Donald Trump
, entered the field seeking to reclaim his old seat. Sessions lost a July 2020 runoff to another Republican, former college football coach Tommy Tuberville, who won the general election that November.
In his statement, Merrill said after &#34;much prayer, reflection, and conversations with my wife, Cindy, I have decided that I will not be a candidate for any office in 2022.&#34;
&#34;Life presents us with a series of chapters, some more challenging than others, in our book of life, and when one finishes, another one begins. While I remain fully committed to continuing my service as your secretary of state through the end of my term, I do not know what the next chapter will present for me and my family,&#34; he added.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Merrill had served in the 
Alabama
 
House of Representatives
 before being elected secretary of state in 2014.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
