
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News&#39; Janice Dean says she&#39;s already discouraged by New York Governor Kathy Hochul&#39;s leadership after deciding to keep Health Department commissioner Howard Zucker on the payroll.
He’s gone from the Executive Mansion to salubrious sofa surfing.
Speculation is swirling that former Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 has been holed up in the 
Hamptons
 after leaving the Executive Mansion in Albany.
Multiple sources say he has been staying at the Southampton home of his longtime pal Dr. Jeffrey A Sachs.
It wouldn’t be the first time Sachs has put Andrew — who resigned earlier this month after Attorney General Letitia James’ investigation found that he sexually harassed or mistreated 11 women — up during a crisis.  
CHELSEA CLINTON SPOTTED JOGGING IN THE HAMPTONS WEEKS BEFORE LEWINSKY MINISERIES PREMIERE
Sachs, who was an usher during Andrew’s wedding to Kerry Kennedy, also gave him a place to crash at his United Nations Plaza apartment, 
according to a report
 after Cuomo and Kennedy split.
Sachs is also godfather to Andrew’s daughter Michaela.
A source said, &#34;The talk around town is that Andrew has been at Jeffrey’s house in Southampton Village.
&#34;Andrew is keeping a very low profile. He knows better than to go for a stroll around town, everybody would be horrified. He hasn’t been out to his usual restaurants, he has been spending time with close friends in their private homes.&#34;
Sachs runs the Sachs Policy Group, which advises on health care policy. He was on Cuomo’s New York State Medicaid Redesign Team in 2011.
But it seems his ties go back even farther. Sachs also served as an adviser to Andrew’s father Mario, according to 
an online bio
.
Sachs is also close to Andrew’s brother, CNN anchor Chris Cuomo, who also has a place in Southampton. It is believed Andrew has also been spending time there, as well as with his sister Maria in Westchester.
Before leaving the Executive Mansion, 
the NY Post reported
 that his things were U-Hauled to his sister’s Maria Cole and her husband designer Kenneth Cole’s house in Westchester.
The 
NY Post reported earlier
 this month that homeless Andrew does not own any property in his name, according to available public records. He used to shack up with his ex, Sandra Lee, but he moved out in 2019. Lee sold the Mount Kisco home for $1.85 million in 2020.
When asked where he was going to live, 
Andrew told NY Mag
, &#34;I’m not disappearing. I have a voice, I have a perspective and that’s not gonna change. And the details aren’t really that important to me to tell you the truth.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
He added, &#34;You know? I’m a New Yorker, I’ve lived here, I’ve lived in Queens, I’ve lived in the city, I’ve lived upstate, I’ve lived everywhere, I came to Washington, so that’s … I don’t really care about that. I’ll figure that out.&#34;
Reps for Cuomo and Sachs didn’t get back to us.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
