
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that people getting their first dose of the COVID-19 
vaccine
 at any city-run vaccination site will receive a $100 incentive starting Friday, July 30. 
CALIFORNIA TO MANDATE VACCINE OR CORONAVIRUS WEEKLY TESTING FOR ALL STATE WORKERS
&#34;For any New Yorker who goes to a city-run site to get vaccinated, we’ll say thank you, we’re really glad that you got vaccinated for yourself, for your family, for your community, and here’s $100 to thank you for doing the right thing and to encourage people,&#34; de Blasio announced.
This is the latest of many incentives being offered in New York and around the country. At Wesleyan University, Connecticut, where COVID-19 vaccinations are a requirement, officials are offering 50 scholarships worth $25,000. 
Missouri
, the state with the fourth-worst COVID-19 diagnosis rate, has made nearly 6,000 of its state workers eligible to receive $100 in gift cards. In 
Alabama
, people aged 16 and older who choose to be vaccinated can drive their car two laps on the Talladega Superspeedway. 
FAUCI SAYS VIRUS HAS ‘PEAKED’ FOR THE VACCINATED: ‘WE HAVE TWO KINDS OF AMERICA’
Private companies are also offering incentives. Several 
child care facilities
 have offered free services to parents getting a vaccine or recovering from vaccination, including Bright Horizons, KinderCare, LearningCare Group, and YMCA.
VETERANS AFFAIRS TO MANDATE COVID VACCINE FOR HEALTH CARE PERSONNEL, FIRST SUCH MANDATE FOR FEDERAL AGENCY
De Blasio pointed out that the cash incentive is not the only reward vaccinated New Yorkers will receive — they will also be allowed to attend several 
upcoming concerts
 in the city.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;You then qualify to do everything else that’s wonderful in this city. Including the amazing concerts coming up. You can’t go to those concerts unless you’re vaccinated,&#34; the mayor said. &#34;The fight against COVID continues. The focus on vaccination continues, that’s how we’re going to build our recovery.&#34; 
De Blasio announced that the city will be 
requiring
 all city employees to get the vaccine or be tested weekly. 
&#34;If you are a city employee and you&#39;re unvaccinated you must wear a mask indoors at work. We will not tolerate any decision to do otherwise because this is about protecting peoples&#39; health and well being,&#34; the mayor said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
