
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The most high-profile 
Wisconsin
 Democrat to date on Monday jumped into his party’s increasingly crowded 
Senate
 primary in a crucial battleground race in the 2022 
midterm elections
 that could end up deciding which party controls the chamber.
&#34;Hard-working families deserve every opportunity, but politicians like aren’t delivering. Instead of changing our dreams, we need to change the game. Join us,&#34; Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes tweeted as he declared his candidacy for Senate.
FIVE BIG QUESTIONS AS THE GOP TRIES TO WIN BACK THE SENATE IN 2022
&#34;When you stay focused on why you are running, nothing can slow you down.&#34; Barnes said as he’s seen jogging through much of his announcement video. &#34;We can’t settle for what is. We have to reach for what can be, pushing hard every step of the way.&#34;
The 34-year-old Barnes, a former state lawmaker, made history in 2018 as he won election as Wisconsin’s first Black lieutenant governor. He grabbed national attention last year in the wake of the police shooting of Black man Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin, as he pushed for police reform and an end to racial inequity. In his video, Barnes pledged to fight for health care and education reforms, voting rights, and tackling climate change.
He now joins a Democratic Senate field that includes state Treasurer Sarah Godlewski, state Sen. Chris Larson and Alex Lasry, a businessman whose family owns the Milwaukee Bucks professional basketball team.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Senate is currently split 50-50 between the two major parties, but Democrats hold a razor-thin majority in the chamber due to the tie-breaking vote of 
Vice President Kamala Harris
 through her constitutional role as president of the Senate.
Looking at next year’s map, Republicans are playing plenty of defense. They’re defending 20 of the 34 seats up for grabs in next year’s midterm elections – including having to protect five open seats where GOP incumbents are retiring. But the NRSC also sees strong pickup opportunities in Georgia, Arizona, Nevada and New Hampshire.
The GOP may have a sixth seat to defend – as Johnson has yet to say if he’s seeking a third term in the 2022 midterms. The senator vowed in 2016 to only serve two terms, but he’s left open the possibility of running again.
&#34;I&#39;m undecided,&#34; he told reporters a month ago during a Milwaukee Press Club virtual event. 
And Johnson reiterated that he felt no pressure to decide anytime soon, repeating that he didn’t launch his first Senate campaign in 2010 until seven months before the election. 
SEN. JOHNSON TAKES AIM AT BIDEN
Johnson won reelection in 2016 by less than four points against former Democratic Sen. Russ Feingold. But Wisconsin’s other senator – Democrat Tammy Baldwin – won reelection in 2018 by nearly 11 points. 
Barnes and now-Gov. Tony Evers edged out GOP Gov. Scott Walker and Lt. Gov. Rebecca Kleefisch that same year. And now-President Biden narrowly captured the state in last November’s election.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
