
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
After more than 15 years in Congress, Rep. John Yarmuth, D-Ky., announced Tuesday that he will retire at the end of his term in 2023, but the seat will likely remain in Democratic hands.
Yarmuth, who turns 74 in November and serves as chair of the House Budget Committee, announced his retirement in a video shared to Twitter on Tuesday. 
&#34;At the time, I simply wanted to stop the Bush agenda by helping flip control of the House of Representatives to Democrats,&#34; Yarmuth said in the video about his coming to Congress in 2006.
PELOSI LECTURES REPORTERS, SAYS THEY &#39;COULD DO A BETTER JOB SELLING&#39; BUILD BACK BETTER
Yarmuth&#39;s announcement comes as Democrats struggle to hold on to their slim majority in the House and as several other party members have also recently announced plans to retire. 
But while both Democrats and Republicans in the state have expressed interest in running for the seat currently held by Yarmuth, it is likely to remain a stronghold for the left. The area is a Democrat-leaning urban district that includes most of the Louisville metro area, and state Republicans said they have 
no intention of splitting
 it into three portions for fear that the move would benefit Democrats.
Kentucky&#39;s Congressional Delegation, which includes Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, mostly opposes a split. According to Rep. Brett Guthrie, R-Ky., McConnell, who resides in Louisville, believes the city is &#34;
its own entity
&#34; and deserves to have its own member of Congress.
Moments after the announcement from Yarmuth, Morgan McGarvey, Kentucky&#39;s top Democrat in the state legislature, 
announced
 he would be jumping into the race alongside others, including state Rep. Attica Scott.
Scott, a progressive in the state House, entered the race in July, creating a challenge to Yarmuth prior to his announcement. As reported by Louisville&#39;s 
Courier Journal
, Scott has called for the decriminalizing marijuana, ending qualified immunity from civil lawsuits for police officers and abolishing the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.
Kentucky&#39;s Republican Party suggested Yarmuth was retiring because he would soon be in the minority.
&#34;Chairman Yarmuth’s announcement shows Democrats realize their chances of maintaining control of the U.S. House of Representatives are slim to none,&#34; 
said
 Mac Brown, chairman of the Republican Party of Kentucky. &#34;We look forward to doing our part to helping retire Nancy Pelosi as speaker in 2022.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
According to the congressman, his retirement will be spent with his family.
&#34;After every election, I was asked how long I intended to serve, and I never had an answer. Today, I do. This term will be my last,&#34; Yarmuth said. 
Other congressional Democrats who plan to retire soon include Reps. Filemon Vela of Texas, Ann Kirkpatrick of Arizona, Cheri Bustos of Illinois and Ron Kind of Wisconsin.
Kyle Morris covers politics for Fox News and is a graduate of the University of Alabama. Follow him on Twitter: 
@RealKyleMorris
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
