
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Georgia Republican Gov. Brian Kemp responds to Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms blaming the city&#39;s crime spike on GOP-led reopening during the coronavirus pandemic.
The Justice Department
 on Friday filed a lawsuit against 
Georgia
 over the state&#39;s new voting law.
The lawsuit will challenge several of the provisions in Georgia Senate Bill 202, according to the DOJ.
&#34;The right of all eligible citizens to vote is the central pillar of our democracy, the right from which all other rights ultimately flow,&#34; Attorney General Merrick B. Garland said in a statement. &#34;This lawsuit is the first step of many we are taking to ensure that all eligible voters can cast a vote; that all lawful votes are counted; and that every voter has access to accurate information.&#34;
The provisions the DOJ will target include a ban on government entities from handing out unsolicited absentee ballots; fines on civic groups, places of worship and advocacy organizations groups for distributing follow-up absentee ballots; shortening absentee ballot deadlines to 11 days before Election Day and more, according to a press release.
&#34;The right to vote is one of the most central rights in our democracy and protecting the right to vote for all Americans is at the core of the Civil Rights Division’s mission,&#34; Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke for Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division said. &#34;The Department of Justice will use all the tools it has available to ensure that each eligible citizen can register, cast a ballot, and have that ballot counted free from racial discrimination. Laws adopted with a racially motivated purpose, like Georgia Senate Bill 202, simply have no place in democracy today.&#34; 

      U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland holds a news conference to announce that the Justice Department will file a lawsuit challenging a Georgia election law that imposes new limits on voting, at the Department of Justice in Washington, D.C., U.S., June 25, 2021. REUTERS/Ken Cedeno
      
Georgia. Gov. Brian Kemp and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger condemned the lawsuit in Friday statements.
&#34;This lawsuit is born out of the lies and misinformation the Biden administration has pushed against Georgia’s Election Integrity Act from the start,&#34; Kemp said. &#34;Joe Biden, Stacey Abrams, and their allies tried to force an unconstitutional elections power grab through Congress - and failed. Now, they are weaponizing the U.S. Department of Justice to carry out their far-left agenda that undermines election integrity and empowers federal government overreach in our democracy.&#34;
Raffensberger out the Biden administration for doing &#34;the bidding of Stacey Abrams and spreads more lies about Georgia’s election law.&#34;
&#34;Their lies already cost Georgia $100 million and got the President awarded with four Pinocchios. It is no surprise that they would operationalize their lies with the full force of the federal government. I look forward to meeting them, and beating them, in court,&#34; he said.
The expected lawsuit comes two weeks after Garland said 
the Justice Department
 would scrutinize a wave of new laws in 
Republican-controlled states
 that tighten voting rules. He pledged to take action if prosecutors found unlawful activity.
WASHINGTON POST&#39;S JENNIFER RUBIN SAYS MERRICK GARLAND IS ‘WRONG MAN’ FOR AG AFTER DECLARING HIM ‘RIGHT PICK’
Abrams 
tweeted
 about the news Friday, saying Americans of all races, parties and zip codes &#34;have an ally on voting rights&#34; in the Justice Department and thanked the attorney general.
The person who spoke to AP was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly before the official announcement and spoke on condition of anonymity.
The move also comes as pressure grows on the 
Biden administration
 to respond to GOP-backed laws being pushed in the states this year. An effort to overhaul election laws was blocked this week by 
Republican senators.
More than 20 GOP-led voting laws have passed in 14 states, according to the Brennan Center for Justice, which researches voting and supports expanded access.
Georgia&#39;s new voting law requires voter ID for mail-in ballots and limits the number of ballot drop boxes in Atlanta. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Under the bill, the 
GOP-dominated
 legislature gave itself greater influence over a state board that regulates elections and empowered that board to remove local election officials deemed to be underperforming.
That has raised concerns that the state board could intervene in the operations of 
Democratic-run
 county election offices in metro Atlanta, the state’s Democratic power center.
Fox News&#39; Brooke Singman and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
