
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Protests on the West Coast take a violent turn following Joe Biden&#39;s inauguration; GOP Sen. Tom Cotton reacts to the riots on &#39;Fox &amp;amp; Friends.&#39;
Sen. Tom Cotton said Wednesday that renewed 
Antifa riots
 in 
Portland and Seattle
 - following the inauguration of 
President Joe Biden
 - prove the point he made over the summer that force is needed to maintain law and order. 
Cotton, R-Ark., said he remembers the media and Democrats blaming former President Donald Trump for Antifa violence in Democrat-run cities just a few months ago.
Speaking on 
&#34;Fox &amp; Friends,&#34;
 he said that no matter what side a violent mob is on, they must be put down with force, whether it&#39;s Antifa or the pro-Trump rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on January 6. 
SEATTLE PROTESTERS OPPOSE BIDEN AND POLICE, VANDALIZE BUILDINGS, CAUSE OTHER DAMAGE: REPORTS
SEN. TOM COTTON: I remember the media and Democrats blaming all this Antifa violence on Donald Trump. Yet here we have Joe Biden in the White House and Antifa is still rampaging in the streets of Seattle and Portland and Denver. It proves a point I made two months ago, two weeks ago. When you have a mob using violence for a political end, it doesn&#39;t matter what slogan they&#39;re chanting or flag they are waving. They have to be met with force. And force has to be used to deter that violence and if it breaks out, to stop that violence. That has to be the standard that we apply no matter what slogan a mob is chanting. 
[...]
These mobs that we see on the streets of Seattle and Portland and Denver that represent Antifa - which I guess maybe is not just an idea as some Democrats have said - ultimately what they want is to overthrow America. They hate America, they are not rampaging the streets because Joe Biden is president. They weren&#39;t doing it last summer because Donald Trump was president. They are doing it because they hate America. 
Antifa
 protesters in Portland 
clashed with authorities Wednesday
 as they gathered to voice dissatisfaction with 
President Biden
, forcing officers to retreat and taking at least one 
police
 bicycle, authorities said.
A crowd of up to 150 people gathered at Revolution Hall around 2 p.m. local time and marched to the headquarters of the Democratic Party of Oregon, Portland police Sgt. Kevin Allen said. The so-called J20 protest was a demonstration against Biden and law enforcement. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In total, eight adults were arrested for crimes ranging from rioting and possession of a destructive device to reckless burning. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
