
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
EXCLUSIVE: 
John James,
 the West Point graduate, Iraq War veteran and businessman turned back-to-back 
Republican 
Senate
 nominee in 
Michigan,
 is on a new mission.
James on Wednesday is launching the &#34;Mission First, People Always&#34; political action committee to support candidates who, he said, &#34;will lead through the challenges of today with the boldness and balance that empowers Americans to live freer, more joyous lives while ensuring our nation is powerful, prosperous, and peaceful.&#34;
SEVEN THINGS YOU MAY NOT HAVE KNOWN ABOUT JOHN JAMES
The announcement was shared first with Fox News.
&#34;Combat leaders do not get to choose whether they accomplish the mission or bring their soldiers back to base; they are expected to do both. Business leaders do not get to choose whether they satisfy the customer or make payroll; they are expected to do both. Sadly, too few of our political leaders think this way,&#34; James said in a statement.

      John James, the West Point graduate, Iraq War veteran, businessman and Senate nominee in Michigan launched &#34;Mission First, People Always&#34; PAC
      
James, who is chairman of the new PAC, said he’ll &#34;support candidates who bring this kind of balanced, real world leadership to American government.&#34; James said that the concept of the PAC was inspired by the training he received at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and at Army Ranger school.
James was the 2018 GOP Senate nominee in Michigan, losing by seven and a half points to Democratic Sen. Debbie Stabenow. Last year, James came within a point and a half of ousting Democratic Sen. Gary Peters from Congress.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
James’ background and life story, and his prowess for fundraising, made him one of the GOP’s most compelling Senate challengers during the 2020 cycle.
Discussing his PAC, James said that the political contenders that he’ll support &#34;must be bold, stand on our principles, and take action. I look forward to supporting candidates who will forge ahead into all corners of America with a spirit of service and sacrifice.&#34;
CORY GARDNER&#39;S POST-SENATE POLITICAL MISSION: BOOSTING FUNDRAISING FOR FELLOW REPUBLICANS
James isn’t the first 2020 GOP Senate nominee to launch a PAC to help fellow Republicans.
Former 
Sen. Cory Gardner 
of Colorado, who last November lost his bid for reelection, announced in February that he would be chairing the 
National Victory Action Fund
, a super PAC that aims to direct fundraising straight to 
Republican candidates
 running in the
 2022 midterm elections,
 as the party tries to win back majorities in both chambers of Congress.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
