
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributor Leslie Marshall and Independent Women&#39;s Forum analyst Kelsey Bolar weigh in on ‘America’s News HQ.’
Multiple high-profile Democratic women have yet to publicly comment on sexual harassment allegations against 
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo
 despite having fervently objected to the nomination of 
Brett Kavanaugh
 to the U.S. Supreme Court over decades-old allegations of sexual harassment. 
As of Sunday afternoon, 
Vice President Kamala Harris
, Sen. 
Elizabeth Warren
, D-Mass., and two-time presidential candidate 
Hillary Clinton
 have released no statement on the claims made by two women who worked closely with Cuomo. 

      New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo speaks during a press conference before the opening of a mass COVID-19 vaccination site in the Queens borough of New York, Wednesday, Feb. 24, 2021. 
      
(AP)
In September 2019, then-Sen. Harris 
reiterated her call
 to impeach Kavanaugh following a New York Times story that revived sexual misconduct allegations by multiple women that had dogged his nomination to the Supreme Court the year prior. 
During an appearance on MSNBC, Harris referred to Kavanaugh’s confirmation as a &#34;sham process,&#34; claiming she wasn’t &#34;given all of the information&#34; at the time that was available.
And before being announced as Democratic nominee Joe Biden&#39;s running mate, Harris once said 
she believed
 women who had accused the now-sitting president of inappropriate touching. 
CNN&#39;S DANA BASH FLUBS CUOMO QUESTION TO PSAKI, REFERS TO NY GOVERNOR AS &#39;CHRIS&#39;
In October 2018, Warren 
delivered a speech
 from the Senate floor also denouncing Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court as &#34;a sham.&#34; 
&#34;Republicans want to confirm Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, and they will ignore, suppress or shout down any inconvenient facts that might give the American people pause about this nomination,&#34; Warren said. &#34;Republicans are playing politics with the Supreme Court, and they are willing to step on anyone –including the victim of a vicious sexual assault – in order to advance their agenda.&#34;
CNN&#39;S BRIAN STELTER FORCED TO ADDRESS CUOMO SEX SCANDAL AFTER NETWORK DELAYED COVERAGE OF FIRST ACCUSER
Clinton also weighed in on the Kavanaugh confirmation, repeating the familiar Democratic talking point of warning that his nomination would spell the end of Roe v. Wade. 
Fox News has reached out to Harris, Warren and Clinton for comment. 
Democrats statewide appeared to be abandoning Cuomo in large numbers as Attorney General Letitia James rejected two proposals by the governor for an investigation of his conduct.
The calls for an investigation into Cuomo&#39;s workplace behavior intensified after a second former employee of his administration went public Saturday with claims she had been harassed by the governor.
Charlotte Bennett, a low-level aide in the governor&#39;s administration until November, told The New York Times that Cuomo asked her inappropriate questions about her sex life, including whether she ever had sex with older men.
Her accusation came days after another former aide, Lindsey Boylan, a former deputy secretary for economic development and special adviser to the governor, elaborated on harassment allegations she first made in December. Boylan said Cuomo subjected her to an unwanted kiss and inappropriate comments.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The 63-year-old Cuomo said in a statement Saturday he had intended to be a mentor for Bennett, who is 25. He has denied Boylan&#39;s allegations.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
