
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News correspondent Casey Stegall joins &#39;Special Report&#39; with the rising immigration numbers
A migrant camp near the 
U.S.-Mexico border
, just south of 
California
, has grown to about 1,000 people, according to a report.
The size of the gathering in Tijuana, Mexico, has increased despite inclement weather and pleas from government officials in both Tijuana and the Mexican state of Baja California for the group to break up their campsite, according to Border Report.
Many of the 
migrants
 are unaccompanied minors, reports said.
&#34;You see all these people right here? They are looking for some future for their kids, their families too. That’s why we’re here,&#34; Nicolas Diego, a migrant from Guatemala, told Border Report.
SEAN HANNITY: BIDEN ADMINISTRATION &#39;COMPLETELY UNPREPARED&#39; FOR BORDER CRISIS
The migrants – all hoping to cross into the United States at some point – have been helped with tents, food and water brought in by church groups and other charities, according to the news outlet.
But the area lacks restrooms, electricity and running water – and health officials are concerned about the risks of spreading the 
coronavirus
, the station reported.
Nevertheless, Diego and other migrants say they’re hoping President Biden will let them enter the U.S. soon.
&#34;We know this is going to work out. We know Biden will give us a chance to be in the U.S. That’s the reason we all came to the border,&#34; 
Diego told Border Report
.
&#34;We know Biden will give us a chance to be in the U.S. That’s the reason we all came to the border.&#34;
 
Earlier this week, the migrants were 
photographed wearing T-shirts
 and holding placards saying &#34;Biden, please let us in!&#34;
On Thursday, Biden spokesman Vedant Patel said administration officials would be traveling to the border region soon to assess the migrant situation.
&#34;President Biden has asked senior members of his team to travel to the border region in order to provide a full briefing to him on the government response to the influx of unaccompanied minors and an assessment of additional steps that can be taken to ensure the safety and care of these children,&#34; Patel’s statement said, 
according to The Hill
.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The White House would not provide a specific date or name the specific officials who would be visiting the area, according to the report.
On Monday, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas insisted that the gatherings at the border 
represented only a &#34;challenge,&#34; not a crisis,
 for the Biden administration.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
