
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News congressional correspondent Chad Pergram reports from Capitol Hill, says moderates could negotiate a scaled-back bill to pass in the Senate
President Biden
 will travel to 
New Jersey
 and 
New York
 next week to survey the aftermath of 
Hurricane Ida
 after it caused severe flood damage on the east coast.
The president&#39;s plan to visit Manville, New Jersey, and Queens, New York, on Tuesday comes after he surveyed damaged neighborhoods in Louisiana Friday to observe the storm&#39;s impact there, particularly in suburbs surrounding New Orleans.
&#34;My message today is….there&#39;s nothing political about this,&#34; Biden said Friday. &#34;It&#39;s just simply about saving lives and getting people back up and running. And we&#39;re in this together. And so we&#39;re not leaving any community behind rural, city, coastal.&#34;

      President Joe Biden participates in a briefing about the response to damage caused by Hurricane Ida, at the St. John Parish Emergency Operations Center, Friday, Sept. 3, 2021, in LaPlace, La., as Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards listens. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
The Category 4 storm first struck Louisiana last Sunday with sustained maximum winds of 150 mph before moving north toward the tristate area on Wednesday and Thursday with severe rain, leading the governors of New York and New Jersey to issue states of emergency.
HURRICANE LARRY HITS CATEGORY 3 IN ATLANTIC, MAY CAUSE ROUGH SURF, RIP CURRENTS ALONG EAST COAST: REPORT
In a region that had been warned about potentially deadly flash flooding but hadn’t braced for such a blow from the no-longer-hurricane, the storm killed at least 46 people from Maryland to Connecticut on Wednesday night and Thursday morning.
WHITE HOUSE JUGGLING ‘MULTIPLE CRISES’ BETWEEN AFGHANISTAN, HURRICANE IDA, OFFICAL SAYS
At least 23 people died in New Jersey, Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy said. At least 13 people were killed in New York City, police said, 11 of them in flooded basement apartments, which often serve as relatively affordable homes in one of the nation’s most expensive housing markets. Suburban Westchester County reported three deaths.

      President Joe Biden tours a neighborhood impacted by Hurricane Ida, Friday, Sept. 3, 2021, in LaPlace, La. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
More than 1,000 employees with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) were deployed to Louisiana and parts of the Northeast last week, according to a Saturday press release from the agency.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The National Guard Bureau deployed 15 high-water vehicles in New Jersey to help with search and rescue efforts, the American Red Cross set up 13 emergency shelters across New York and New Jersey, and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is assisting wireless carriers in restoring power to residents impacting by the storm.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
