
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
An end-of-the-year report filed with the 
Federal Election Commission (FEC)
 revealed that the federal arm of the 
Florida
 
Democratic Party
 is more than $868,000 in 
debt
 following 
November&#39;s election season
.
The 
reports of receipts and disbursement
 also showed that the Democratic Executive Committee of Florida had less than $61,000 in cash on hand at the time of filing on Sunday.
FLORIDA GOV TAKES AIM AT MEDIA FOR SUPER BOWL VIRUS COVERAGE
Florida Democrats are 
no strangers
 to financing issues. 
In 2018, the 
Naples Daily News reported
 that the party would be questioned by the FEC over how it had failed to explain why a federal account used for federal campaigns ended up $159,333 in the red.
According to Florida Politics
, the only time the federal entity had accumulated debts this high was last spring, when the party accepted $815,641 in 
Paycheck Protection Program loans
. After facing criticism, the party 
returned the money
 to the federal government in July 2020.

      An election worker, left, gives instructions for voting at an early voting site, Monday, Oct. 19, 2020, in Miami. (AP Photo/Lynne Sladky)
      
Politico reported
 last week that by the end of 2020 the party was so cash-strapped that it allowed 
health insurance
 for its 
employees
 to suddenly lapse amid the 
COVID-19 pandemic
. 
It was a move that former leadership said was due to a delay in their check being paid, that newly appointed party Chair 
Manny A. Diaz
 said was &#34;inhumane,&#34; and that led Democrats to call for both the resignations of top party officials and an audit of finances.
Diaz, the former mayor of 
Miami
, promised at the beginning of the month that the insurance policy would be reinstated and that employees would have their bills paid for. 
He told Politico that he had been aware that the party&#39;s finances were a mess and that he&#39;d been forced to make some &#34;difficult decisions&#34; to counter monetary woes, but that he &#34;didn’t think things were going to [be] this bad.&#34;
FLORIDA DEMOCRATS CHALLENGE &#39;STAND YOUR GROUND&#39; LAW AGAIN
Nevertheless, 
morale was already down
 for staffers, following devastating electoral losses last year.
Although Democrats saw some returns for the billions they spent on the presidential and 
Senate races
 -- the Democratic National Committee reported to the FEC in January that it capped off the year with 
almost $39 million
 in the bank -- even former 2020 presidential candidate and 
New York City
 mayor 
Michael Bloomberg&#39;s
 
more than $1.2 billion
 couldn&#39;t keep them competitive in the Sunshine State.
Former President Donald Trump
 and Florida 
Republicans
 bested 
now-President Joe Biden
 and big-spending Democrats by 
3.3 percentage points
 in the state in November.
Members of both parties will look to Florida once more ahead of the 
2022 midterm elections
, during which Democrats have yet another chance to make gains in the GOP-controlled state House and oust prominent Republicans like 
Gov. Ron DeSantis
 and 
Sen. Marco Rubio
. 

      Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis scolded CNN reporter Rosa Flores on Monday for implying that Florida has experienced issues distributing the coronavirus vaccine. (Diaz/Pool via REUTERS)
      
While challengers 
have been floated
 in the gubernatorial race -- like Daniel Uhlfelder, a lawyer known for his appearances at Florida beaches dressed as the Grim Reaper who has a 
political action committee (PAC)
 called 
&#34;Remove Ron&#34;
 -- DeSantis starts with $9 million in his own PAC, 
according to WCJB
.
The future of the race for the 
Senate
 remains murky, though Republicans have a head start with more than $5.8 million cash on hand, according to the 
end-of-year FEC report
 for its federal entity.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
The Florida Democratic Party has not responded to Fox News&#39; request for comment.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
