
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News host Jesse Watters says the vice president has become a &#39;laughing stock&#39; on &#39;The Five&#39;
The timing probably couldn’t be worse for the 
Biden
 administration. On Friday, Vice President 
Kamala Harris
 is scheduled to embark on a trip across the Pacific that will include a stop in 
Vietnam
.
The trip – which will be Harris’ second outside the U.S. since taking office – comes as the current crisis in 
Afghanistan
 has drawn many comparisons to the end of U.S. involvement in Vietnam in the 1970s.
This week’s scenes of crowds gathering at Kabul’s airport and U.S. military helicopters arriving to pick up passengers at the U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan’s capital revived grim memories of desperate Vietnamese people trying to board U.S. helicopters as they left the embassy in Saigon more than four decades ago.
The Vietnam War era was among the most divisive periods in American history, with the long conflict factoring into Democratic President Lyndon Johnson’s decision not to seek re-election in 1968.
PRESIDENT BIDEN, VP HARRIS AVOID THE CAMERAS AS KABUL FALLS TO TALIBAN
The prospect of Harris visiting Vietnam at this particular moment raised the possibility of the worst photo op for an American in that country since 
Jane Fonda
 donned a helmet there in 1972.

      Jane Fonda is seen in Vietnam in 1972, looking through the scope of an anti-aircraft gun during her tour of the North Vietnamese capital. (Getty Images)
      
As of Monday, Harris had no plans to cancel her trip, The Washington Post reported.
The Afghanistan crisis prompted President Biden to 
shorten his Camp David vacation
. He returned to the White House on Tuesday night instead of Wednesday as he had planned.
In April, Harris told CNN she was the &#34;last person in the room&#34; when Biden decided to pull U.S. troops from Afghanistan.
Last weekend, as the crisis unfolded in Kabul, Harris again met with Biden and White House national security advisers – but this time Biden was alone at Camp David while others participated remotely.

      President Biden speaks with Vice President Kamala Harris and members of his national security team from Camp David in Maryland, Aug. 14, 2021. (White House)
      
When Harris arrives in Vietnam next Tuesday, after a stop in Singapore over the weekend, she will be the most senior Biden administration official to travel to Southeast Asia as the U.S. looks to support its allies in the region as they deal with China’s close proximity.
&#34;She’s got a great grasp on the issues, and her trip will no doubt help to advance our interests in this vital region,&#34; Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said this week in a statement to The Washington Post.
Ahead of Harris’ planned visit, Austin and Secretary of State Antony Blinken recently traveled to Japan and South Korea, while Austin also visited Singapore, Vietnam and the Philippines, 
according to the Post
.
William Danvers, an adjunct professor at George Washington University, claimed 
in an essay for The Hill
 this week that Harris’ experience as a former U.S. senator from California means &#34;she understands the importance of ties, especially economic ties, between Asia and U.S.&#34;

      This week&#39;s events following President Biden&#39;s decision to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan revived grim memories of the fall of Saigon in 1975, right. (Associated Press/Getty Images)
      
In July, 
Harris spokeswoman Symone Sanders said
 the vice president will discuss with Asian leaders details about regional security, the coronavirus pandemic, climate change and &#34;our joint effort to promote a rules-based international order&#34; – a reference to regional disputes over China’s claims in the South China Sea.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In June, Harris 
visited Guatemala and Mexico
 as she sought to examine the &#34;root causes&#34; of the migrant crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border following her appointment in March as President Biden’s point person on the crisis.
That Latin American trip came as Harris was facing relentless criticism for not visiting U.S. border communities that have been affected by the migrant crisis. Finally, she visited El Paso, Texas, for a few hours on June 25.
While Harris has been outside the U.S. only once as vice president, she has on several occasions met with foreign leaders in Washington. After one such instance, in May, Harris drew criticism on social media after appearing to wipe her hand after greeting South Korean President Moon Jae-in.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
