
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Georgia Republican Gov. Brian Kemp tells ‘Fox and Friends’ the ‘woke cancel culture movement’ has backfired on Democrats for not reading the bill. 
President Biden
 on Thursday said 
Georgia
 voting rights activist 
Stacey Abrams
 could be president if she wanted to, amid suspicions that she will once again run for governor in the state.
Biden thanked Abrams in front of the crowd at a drive-in rally for &#34;empowering people to vote and to make their voices heard.&#34;
&#34;Stacey Abrams can be anything she wants to be — from whatever she chooses to president,&#34; Biden said.
&#34;You’ve been amazing,&#34; Biden said, directed at Abrams.
STACEY ABRAMS GROUP LASHES OUT AFTER WASHINGTON POST FACT CHECK DOLES OUT &#39;PINOCCHIOS&#39;
As 
previously reported by Fox News
, The Washington Post gave Abrams two Pinnochios for statements she made about the GOP voting reform law. Abrams said the law would restrict hours allowed for early voting, which The Post classified as misleading since counties would be able to add additional hours if they chose.
Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp told 
Fox News
 in an interview on Thursday that Abrams and other critics were &#34;lying&#34; about the law that he signed in March.
It is expected that Abrams will challenge Kemp for the state’s governorship in 2022. Republicans have already launched a &#34;
Stop Stacey
&#34; campaign.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Abrams lost to Kemp in 2018, but Democrats showed in the 2020 elections that they have momentum in the state after winning both Senate seats.
Biden was the first presidential candidate since 1992 to win the state, while Democrats won both Senate runoff elections that were held at the beginning of this year.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
