
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Amid a nationwide GOP push to ban 
critical race theory
 –  a controversial academic framework that examines systematic racism in the U.S. – Minnesota Democrat 
Rep. Ilhan Omar
 denied Saturday that the doctrine is even being taught in public schools. 
&#34;Republicans love to create outrage over things that aren’t actually happening,&#34; she wrote on Twitter. &#34;People should be asking them, what elementary, middle and high school is teaching Critical Race Theory and why they are spinning false narratives.&#34;
WEBSITE LAUNCHED TO TRACK CRITICAL RACE THEORY TEACHING IN HIGHER EDUCATION
The Minnesota Democrat’s comments come just one day after Wisconsin Republican 
Rep. Glenn Grothman
 introduced a bill that would ban Washington, D.C. public schools from teaching the controversial subject.  
His bill, which was introduced on the first federal Juneteenth holiday, is just the latest in a series of legislative pushes to ban critical race theory from public schools and universities.
Supporters of the education-based movement believe there needs to be a larger discussion surrounding how racism is a social construct, rather than a result of individual bias, embedded in social policies and laws. 
WISCONSIN GOP CONGRESSMAN PUSHES BILL TO BAN CRITICAL RACE THEORY IN DC PUBLIC SCHOOLS
But opponents of critical race theory believe its core concept does not merely show how historical policies have perpetuated &#34;
race-blind
&#34; practices, but in fact, creates further division amongst races.
Grothman argued that critical race theory teaches children &#34;to hate each other and hate their country.&#34;
&#34;In other words, students being taught that they are defined by the color of their skin, not the content of their character,&#34; he said in a Friday statement.
Nearly two dozen state lawmakers have introduced bills that seek to bar critical race theory from being taught in public schools, including Grothman’s home state of Wisconsin.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Five Republican-controlled states -- Idaho, Oklahoma, Texas, Tennessee and Iowa -- have passed legislation banning the subject.
It is unclear how many public schools actually teach critical race theory as a part of their curriculum. However, multiple parents have sounded the alarm over 
assignments
 their children have been given, which use terms such as &#34;White privilege&#34; and casting minority students as oppressed individuals. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
