
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Vice President 
Kamala Harris
 landed in Singapore on Sunday as she begins a visit to Southeast 
Asia
 that will also include a stop in Vietnam.
Photos posted by Reuters on Sunday showed Harris being greeted by Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore&#39;s foreign affairs minister.
Harris left Washington on Friday night, boarding Air Force Two at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland and flying on to refueling stops in Alaska and 
Japan
 before arriving in Singapore.
The vice president is expected to use the trip to communicate U.S. views regarding 
China
&#39;s growing power and influence in the region – including the communist regime’s efforts to take control of the South China Sea.
NEWT GINGRICH: AFTER AFGHANISTAN DEBACLE, BIDEN ‘CAN’T POSSIBLY PROTECT&#39; TAIWAN
Harris&#39; Sunday plans following the long journey were not immediately clear. On Monday, she is scheduled to speak by phone with Singapore President Halimah Yacob and participate in a bilateral meeting with Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, according to the Associated Press.

      U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris arrives in Singapore, August 22, 2021. (Reuters) 
      
Harris and the prime minister are expected to field questions from reporters during a joint news conference, the AP reported.
She is also scheduled to deliver a speech aboard a U.S. combat ship in Singapore, the report said.
VP HARRIS LEAVES FOR TRIP TO VIETNAM, SINGAPORE AMID AFGHANISTAN FIASCO
The vice president will deliver another address Tuesday in Singapore, this one focusing on U.S. plans for engagement in Southeast Asia. She will also discuss supply-chain issues in a meeting with regional business leaders, the AP reported.

      Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore&#39;s foreign affairs minister, greets U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris upon her arrival in Singapore, Aug. 22, 2021. (Reuters)
      
Later Tuesday, Harris will travel to Vietnam. The timing of the trip has been awkward for the Biden administration, as the Afghanistan crisis has drawn many comparisons to the problematic U.S. pullout from Saigon in 1975.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Asia trip is Harris&#39; second foreign trip as vice president, after visiting Guatemala and Mexico in June.
Next Friday, Harris to scheduled to campaign in California for Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom, who is facing a recall effort later this year.
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
