
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
EXCLUSIVE:
 Top GOP officials in the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Tuesday demanded 
answers
 from the Biden administration on information relating to the U.S. withdrawal from 
Afghanistan
.
Documents first obtained by Fox News show that Ranking Member Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, led a group of Republicans in submitting a Resolution of Inquiry (ROI) that calls on the White House and State Department to provide all communication, intelligence assessments and documents on ending the War in Afghanistan. 
The ROI grants the administration 14 days to return the 8-page request for information.
DEMS QUIETLY RESTRICT GOP ABILITY TO INVESTIGATE WHITE HOUSE ACTIONS ON AFGHANISTAN, BORDER CRISIS
If the administration does not supply the information, the ROI would traditionally head to the House floor to become a &#34;privileged resolution,&#34; which would then force the executive branch to hand over the requested information. 
But Republicans on the House Foreign Affairs Committee are not likely to get answers from the administration through their request. 
In March, Democratic members of the House Rules Committee extended a measure that bars ROIs from becoming privileged resolutions. The rule was first implemented in March 2020 as a way to keep business from hitting the House floor during the pandemic. 
House Republicans have grown increasingly frustrated by Democrats who have continuously extended the measure – most recently pushing the rule through Oct. 27. 
But despite the late-October deadline, McCaul told Fox News the ROI should be processed without delay.
&#34;There should be no delay in the investigation into the disastrous events in Afghanistan,&#34; the House Foreign Affairs Committee ranking member said. &#34;I and my Republican colleagues are hopeful that this Resolution of Inquiry will be supported by Democrat Leadership in order to hold this administration accountable for the actions that led to the failed withdrawal from Afghanistan and the deadly aftermath.&#34;
ROIs are traditionally utilized by the minority party to hold the executive branch accountable.
While committees have not been barred from submitting resolutions, the oversight tool has been made ineffective without the threat of becoming a privileged resolution. 
Republicans in the Rules committee have urged their colleagues to reverse the measure that has crippled ROIs and return to business as usual.
MAJORITY OF AMERICANS SUPPORT ACCEPTING AFGHAN REFUGEES WHO WORKED WITH US, NEW POLL SHOWS
&#34;Although Democrats claim that turning off the use of resolutions of inquiry is related to available floor time, it is really a move to shield the Biden Administration from answering legitimate questions about its abject failures and missteps,&#34; Rules Committee Ranking Member Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., told Fox News. 
Republicans are further frustrated by Democratic moves to stymie GOP attempts to conduct oversight, given the number of ROIs filed under the Trump administration. 
During the first two years of Donald Trump’s presidency, when Democrats held the Minority, 18 ROI’s were submitted to the executive branch. 
The chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan has left members of Congress demanding answers from the White House. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Fox News could not immediately reach House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Rep. Gregory Meeks, D-N.Y., for comment on where he stands in gaining more answers from the executive branch through ROI’s. 
But Meeks, who led hearings last month with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, is set to hold a virtual hearing Tuesday to evaluate what President Biden referred to as the &#34;messy&#34; withdrawal from Afghanistan.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
