
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
A group of GOP House freshmen 
penned a letter
 to President-elect 
Joe Biden
 on his inauguration day pledging to work with the incoming Democratic president to find common ground solutions for all Americans.
The 17 Republicans, led by Rep. 
Beth Van Duyne
 of Texas, congratulated Biden on the start of his presidency and offered to work with him on targeted coronavirus relief, protecting Americans with pre-existing health conditions, improving infrastructure and restoring the economy. 
TWO GOP HOUSE FRESHMEN BEAT THE ODDS, LAND COVETED COMMITTEE SPOTS
&#34;We firmly believe that what unites us as Americans is far greater than anything that may ever divide us,&#34; the lawmakers wrote. &#34;In that spirit, we hope that we can rise above the partisan fray to negotiate meaningful change for Americans across the nation and maintain the United States’ standing as the best country in the world.&#34;

      The GOP members say they&#39;d like to work with President-elect Joe Biden and move past partisanship. 
      
The diverse group of incoming freshmen ranges from Rep. 
Barry Moore
 of Alabama, who helped lead the effort to toss out Biden&#39;s Electoral College votes on Jan. 6 over concerns of voter fraud, to Reps. 
Peter Meijer
 of Michigan and 
David Valadao
 of California, who voted to impeach Trump for his role in inciting the deadly riot at the Capitol.
The members said the two impeachments and the &#34;horrific attack&#34; at the Capitol have shown it&#39;s time to move past the deep divisions in America. 
&#34;It is clear that the partisan divide between Democrats and Republicans does not serve a single American,&#34; they wrote.
DC INAUGURATION SECURITY AT CAPITOL INCLUDES NATIONAL GUARD MEDICS TRAINED IN &#39;BATTLEFIELD TRAUMA,&#39; EXPLOSIVES
&#34;...Americans are tired of the partisan gridlock and simply want to see leaders from both sides of the aisle work on issues important to American families, workers and businesses.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In addition to Van Duyne, Moore, Meijer and Valadao, the signers of the olive branch letter to Biden were GOP Reps. Stephanie Bice of Oklahoma, 
Jerry Carl
 of Alabama, 
Madison Cawthorn
 of North Carolina, 
Scott Franklin
 of Florida,  Andrew Garbarino of New York, 
Carlos Gimenez
 of Florida, 
Yvette Herrell
 of New Mexico, 
Ashley Hinson
 of Iowa, 
Young Kim
 of California, 
Nicole Malliotakis
 of New York, 
Mariannette Miller-Meeks
 of Iowa, 
Jay Obernolte
 of California and 
Burgess Owens
 of Utah.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
