
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Special Report All-Star Panel discusses the Clevaland Brown name change and rising inflation on ‘Special Report’
President Biden
 was heckled by an audience member during an appearance 
in Virginia
 on Friday and stopped his speech to address the individual.
&#34;That’s OK, that’s alright, let him talk,&#34; Biden said as the crowd began to stir when an unknown individual started yelling from the back.
&#34;Look, it’s not a Trump rally, let him holler, no one’s paying attention,&#34; he added, causing Virginia gubernatorial candidate Terry McAuliffe, the Democrat Biden was there to support, to chuckle and clap in the background.
BIDEN ADMIN RIPPED BY FOREIGN POLICY THINK TANK FOR INVITING U.N. ENVOY ON RACISM TO ASSESS U.S.
It was unclear what the individual was yelling but reporters on the scene 
suggested
 he was saying &#34;Stop Line 3!&#34; in reference to an Enbridge pipeline project.
Biden was in Virginia to raise money for McAuliffe, who previously served as the commonwealth’s governor from 2014 to 2018. He is now running against Republican businessman Glenn Youngkin, who is backed by Donald Trump, for the position.
PSAKI REFUSES TO GIVE NUMBER OF BREAKTHROUGH WH COVID CASES: &#39;WHY DO YOU NEED THAT INFORMATION?&#39;
&#34;Terry and I share a lot in common – I ran against Donald Trump and so is Terry,&#34; Biden said. &#34;And I whipped Donald Trump in Virginia and so will Terry.&#34;
Recent 
polling
 shows McAuliffe with a narrow four-point lead over Youngkin.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
About an hour before Biden took the stage, some 500 people were seen attending the event, with the venue roughly half empty. However, later in the hour, a White House official said nearly 3,000 people were in attendance there. On YouTube, fewer than 500 people were watching on the main channel streaming the event channel at any given time. 
Earlier this week at a CNN town hall event, Biden was 
criticized
 for speaking to a half-empty room.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
