
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
When 
Joe Biden
 enters the 
White House
 for his first day as President of the United States, he is set to
 sign 17 executive actions and orders
 -- many of which review or reverse 
environmental policy
 written under 
President Donald Trump
.
In 
a fact sheet
 released  Tuesday to the heads of relevant agencies, titled &#34;President-elect Biden’s Day One Executive Actions Deliver Relief for Families Across America Amid Converging Crises,&#34; the administration pledged to examine or instate changes regarding 
union jobs
, advancing environmental justice and combatting 
climate change
.
&#34;These actions are rooted in the rightful recognition of the fact that our planet, our lands, our air, our water, and our communities do not belong to corporations, lobbyists, or government institutions--they belong to us, the people, and protecting them is essential,&#34; Sierra Club Legislative Director Melinda Pierce 
said Wednesday
. 
BIDEN REVEALS CLIMATE AND ENERGY TEAM
&#34;President-elect Biden is taking historic action on day one to advance his agenda -- including signing 15 executive actions and asking agencies to take steps in an additional two areas,&#34; incoming White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki wrote in a statement. &#34;This compares to two day one executive actions from Biden&#39;s four predecessors in the White House combined.&#34;
Among the list of agency actions to be looked at are two 
controversial
 rules that loosened restrictions for America&#39;s 
hunters
 and farmers -- one 
removing the gray wolf from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife
 and the other 
removing 2015 regulatory provisions
 that prohibited certain 
sport hunting practices
 &#34;otherwise permitted by the State of 
Alaska
&#34; in its 10 national preserves.

      President-elect Joe Biden speaks at The Queen Theater in Wilmington, Del., Tuesday, Dec 22, 2020. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
      
Though legal under state law
, critics and conservationists said the revised June 2020 &#34;Alaska; Hunting and Trapping in National Preserves&#34; rule was cruel to wildlife.
However, the 
National Park Service
 said the rule was 
supported by tribal leaders
 and hunting and outdoors groups and that it had &#34;reconsidered its prior position.&#34;
They had initially determined that the practices conflicted with the federal mission to protect Alaska&#39;s wildlife.
HOW 2020 HAS REVIVED THE ONCE-DYING SPORT OF HUNTING
Conservationists asserted the real aim was 
to reduce the population of wolves
 and other predators and increase the numbers of game animals.
Five months later, the administration and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service would revoke Endangered Species Act protections for 
gray wolves
 in most of the country.
&#34;We are taking this action because the best available scientific and commercial data available establish that the gray wolf entities in the lower 48 United States do not meet the definitions of a threatened species or an endangered species under the Act,&#34; they wrote on the Federal Register.
Although gray wolves -- now 
recovered from near extinction
 -- are revered by many, farmers and hunters welcomed the U.S. Department of the Interior&#39;s decision. 
Farmers say reducing wolf numbers would help keep their livestock safe from now-routine attacks. They had 
previously faced a felony
 if they had tried to kill the wolves to protect their animals.
The wolves, listed as an endangered species in 1978 and as a &#34;threatened&#34; species in Minnesota, would continue to be monitored for five years under the rule. More than 2,000 now occupy six states in the Pacific Northwest and Northern Rockies.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Wolves have never been legally protected in Alaska, according to The Associated Press.
The U.S. Department of the Interior told Fox News it is unable to speculate on the incoming administration’s actions.
Fox News has reached out to the National Parks Service, Alaska&#39;s 
Republican
 Gov. Mike Dunleavy and the Biden transition team for further comment but did not immediately receive a response.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
