
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., whose whereabouts were unknown as he was on a reported trip to rescue Americans from 
Afghanistan
, says he is safe and on his way back to the U.S.
For a period of time Tuesday night, neither House Republican leadership nor 
Oklahoma
&#39;s delegation had information about Mullin&#39;s status, but he has since posted an update on 
Instagram
 explaining why he went off the grid.
OKLAHOMA CONGRESSMAN ALLEGEDLY THREATENED EMBASSY STAFF WHILE TRYING TO ENTER AFGHANISTAN: REPORT
&#34;I am heading home,&#34; Mullin said in a Wednesday morning post. &#34;Have we been helping get Americans out of Afghanistan, yes. Is the mission continuing, yes. Am I missing, no. Did I go dark for a little, yes because it wasn&#39;t safe to be communicating.&#34;
Mullin went on to criticize President Biden for his handling of the evacuation of Americans and allies from Afghanistan during the U.S. military&#39;s withdrawal, which left more than 100 Americans remaining.
CALIFORNIA FAMILY BELIEVED STRANDED IN AFGHANISTAN, 7 OTHERS EVACUATED
&#34;President Biden and his administration are absolutely lying to the American people about Americans and our friends being left behind,&#34; he said.
Mullin&#39;s communications director Meredith Blanford said Wednesday that the congressman was never in danger.
&#34;Congressman Mullin has been and is currently completely safe,&#34; Blanford said in a statement. &#34;He and the Office of Oklahoma’s Second District will continue to do anything in our power to bring home all Americans from the war zone that President Biden abandoned. The safety and security of the American people will always be his top priority.&#34;

      Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) asks questions to Dr. Richard Bright, former director of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, during a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health hearing to discuss protecting scientific integrity in response to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak on Capitol Hill in Washington, May 14, 2020.  Greg Nash/Pool via REUTERS
      
(Greg Nash/Pool via REUTERS)
BIDEN LEAVES BEHIND US-SPONSORED JOURNALISTS HE PROMISED TO EVACUATE FROM AFGHANISTAN
According to a 
Washington Post
 report, Mullin had landed in Tajikistan en route to Afghanistan, and ran into trouble at the U.S. embassy there when trying to get a large sum of cash into Afghanistan. Mullin reportedly planned to hire a helicopter to enter Afghanistan and rescue five American citizens – a woman, and her four children, and he sought the ambassador&#39;s help, the Washington Post reported. He reportedly sought the ambassador&#39;s assistance in bypassing Tajikistan’s laws on cash limits, and allegedly threatened the ambassador and staff when they told him no.
The Georgian Embassy in the U.S. told Fox News that Mullin had been in Tbilisi, Georgia over the weekend.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
It was the second time Mullin attempted to travel into Afghanistan, according to the newspaper. He traveled to Greece last week and asked permission to enter Afghanistan, but the Pentagon denied his request to visit Kabul, an administration official said.
Fox News&#39; Kelly Phares, Chad Pergram, Aishah Hasnie, and David Aaro contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
