
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Republicans Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., and Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., accused President Biden of causing a &#34;superspreader&#34; event after 108 migrants who were released by 
Border Patrol 
into the U.S. tested positive for 
Covid-19 
since January.
&#34;President Biden&#39;s border crisis is a superspreader event,&#34; Cotton wrote on Twitter of the event.
&#34;
@JoeBiden
 is treating America just like
 @andrewcuomo
 treated nursing homes,&#34; Greene 
wrote on Twitter. 
&#34;#ImpeachBiden,&#34; she added, a proposition she has been calling for since the new president assumed office. 
108 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS RELEASED INTO US TEST POSITIVE FOR CORONAVIRUS 
Felipe Romero, a spokesman for Brownsville, Texas on the U.S.-Mexico border, told Fox News that the 108 positives represent 6.3% of the number of total migrants who have been rapid-tested at the city’s main bus station, where they are being released by the Border Patrol. Rapid testing of the individuals began there on Jan. 25. 
He added that Brownsville does not have the authority to prevent those who test positive from traveling elsewhere in the U.S. -- and is advising them to quarantine, follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines and socially distance. 
DEADLY CALIFORNIA CRASH INVOLVING 25 IMMIGRANTS JAMMED IN SUV IS BEING INVESTIGATED AS HUMAN SMUGGLING, ICE SAYS
 
Sources at the White House told Fox News they are aware some who test positive may continue to travel, but federal guidance urges them to isolate. 
The city of Brownsville also told 
Noticias Telemundo Investiga
 that it is advising migrants who test positive to go to NGOs and nonprofits in the area for help with finding shelter and places they can isolate themselves from others. The local county-wide positivity rate is estimated to be 13.8%, much higher than most regions of the country. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
Migrant families who tested positive and spoke to that news organization at the bus station said they were waiting to travel to places such as Maryland and New Jersey. 
Fox News&#39; Greg Norman and Griff Jenkins contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
