
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The 
White House
 is reassigning an Interior Department official after she recently planned a 50-person indoor party during the 
coronavirus
 pandemic, according to reports. 
The gathering, organized by department Chief of Staff Jennifer Van der Heide, was planned inside the Interior Department library to celebrate Secretary Deb Haaland’s confirmation. However, the White House canceled it last week before invitations were sent out over fears it could be a superspreader event, according to Politico. 
White House officials also expressed concerns about holding the gathering as the Biden administration,, has urged Americans to take the virus seriously, reports said. Coronavirus rules in Washington, D.C., 
limit indoor gatherings
 to 10 people, including the hosts. 
WHITE HOUSE INVESTIGATING BIDEN&#39;S AUTHORITY TO CANCEL STUDENT DEBT

      An exterior view of the U.S. Department of the Interior is seen on Sept. 11, 2008, in Washington, D.C.  (Getty Images)
      
Van der Heide was moved to a senior counselor job at the agency, two Biden administration officials told the news outlet. One official said the party was &#34;the thing that broke the camel’s back,&#34; and was the &#34;latest lapse in judgment&#34; for her.
The official added that Van der Heide&#39;s party-planning sped up the job switch, while another official noted she was already targeted for a different role, according to Politico. 
Van der Heide will remain at the Interior Department as a senior counselor to Haaland. Larry Roberts, an Obama administration official who served as the agency’s acting assistant director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, will take over as the new chief of staff.
TEXAS RANGERS ALLOWING FULL CAPACITY IN BALLPARK &#39;A MISTAKE,&#39; BIDEN SAYS
&#34;Jennifer Van der Heide is an invaluable member of the Biden Administration and the leadership at the Department of the Interior,&#34; said White House spokesperson Vedant Patel. &#34;She will continue serving in the administration and Secretary Haaland as a Senior Counselor within the Department. Larry Roberts, who previously served under President Obama and has extensive knowledge of the Interior Department, will assume the Chief of Staff role.&#34;
Last year, the former administration of President Trump drew scrutiny for holding a White House event announcing the nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court, which led to numerous people testing positive for the virus. The party planned by Van der Heide was scheduled to have fewer attendees, however it would have been held indoors -- unlike the Rose Garden event.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, indoor events, &#34;especially in places with poor ventilation, 
pose more risk than outdoor events
.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden recently said baseball&#39;s 
Texas Rangers
 made a &#34;
mistake
&#34; opening their ballpark to full capacity for the start of the 2021 season.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
