
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Imagine trying to make an impression on someone who’s met, well, almost everyone.
Such is the challenge for 
President Joe Biden
, who is set to sip tea with 
Queen Elizabeth II 
on Sunday at Windsor Castle after a Group of Seven leaders&#39; summit in southwestern England.
Biden
 will be the 13th president to sit with the now-95-year-old monarch. The White House said he previously met the queen in 1982, when he was a U.S. senator.
Before the two meet again, the leaders are to attend a reception Friday with the queen, her son
 Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla, and Charles&#39; son Prince William and his wife, Kate.
The queen has met every American president since Dwight Eisenhower during her nearly 70-year reign, except for Lyndon Johnson, who didn&#39;t visit Britain while he was in office.
BIDEN&#39;S PROPOSED CORPORATE TAX HIKE POSES POTENTIAL FOR COSTLIER UTILITY BILLS
She was a 25-year-old princess when she came to Washington in 1951 and stayed with President Harry S. Truman and his family at Blair House, where Truman lived while the White House underwent a major renovation. She met Herbert Hoover in 1957, more than 20 years after he left office.
Her personal ties to U.S. leaders underscore the importance of the United States to the 
United Kingdom
 and to the queen. She came of age during World War II and understands the central role the trans-Atlantic alliance has played in modern British history, said Robert Hardman, author of &#34;Queen of the World,’’ which examines her role representing Britain on the world stage.
&#34;She grew up with that sort of sense of the USA is almost a sort of salvation that came along and rescued Europe in the darkest days of the war,’’ Hardman told The Associated Press.
Here are highlights of some of her meetings, on both sides of the pond, with past American presidents:

      In this July 13, 2018, file photo, U.S. President Donald Trump and Britain&#39;s Queen Elizabeth II inspect a Guard of Honour, formed of the Coldstream Guards at Windsor Castle in Windsor, England. (AP Photo/Matt Dunham, Pool, File)
      
DONALD TRUMP
Trump and the 
queen 
met in July 2018 at Windsor Castle during a visit to Britain that drew large anti-Trump protests in downtown London, including the hoisting of a balloon that depicted Trump in a diaper.
He was criticized for breaking protocol by briefly walking in front of the queen — instead of alongside her — and turning his back on her as they reviewed an honor guard.
Trump
 later said he thought of his late mother, Mary Anne, who was born in Scotland and who loved the royal family, when he and his wife, Melania, sipped tea with the queen.
Trump&#39;s subsequent comment that the queen told him that Brexit — Britain&#39;s break from the European Union — was complex also created a stir. Most heads of state keep private their private conversations with the queen. She also doesn&#39;t discuss political matters.
The Trumps and the royals met again during the D-Day commemoration in 2019.

      In this May 25, 2011, file photo, U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama welcome Queen Elizabeth II for a reciprocal dinner at Winfield House in London. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak, File)
      
BARACK OBAMA
Obama and the queen had their first of three meetings in April 2009 at a reception for world leaders attending the Group of 20 nations summit in London.
It was there that first lady Michelle Obama broke protocol by briefly putting an arm around the queen&#39;s back as they commiserated about their achy feet. It&#39;s generally a no-no to touch the queen, but she returned Mrs. Obama&#39;s gesture.
The queen invited the Obamas for a state visit in 2011 that included a two-night stay at Buckingham Palace and a lavish banquet in the president&#39;s honor.
As 
Obama
 delivered a toast to the queen, he didn&#39;t miss a beat when the band assumed that a pause in his remarks meant he had concluded and launched into a rendition of &#34;God Save the Queen.&#34; Obama kept talking over the music until the band quieted down.
The couples saw each other again in 2016 when Obama visited the queen at Windsor Castle a day after her 90th birthday during another swing through Europe.

      In this June 15, 2008, file photo, Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, pointing, walk with U.S. President George Bush and his wife Laura, in St George&#39;s Hall, Windsor Castle, in Windsor, England. (Nick Ray, Pool Photo via AP, File)
      
GEORGE W. BUSH
Bush detested stuffy, formal affairs, but he donned a white tie-and-tails tuxedo after the queen pulled out all the stops for a state dinner in his honor at Buckingham Palace in November 2003.
A few years later, Bush&#39;s slip of the tongue generated ripples of laughter at a White House welcoming ceremony for the queen, who was touring the U.S. in May 2007.
Stumbling on a line in his speech, Bush said the queen had dined with several of his predecessors and had helped the United States &#34;celebrate its bicentennial in 17- ...&#34; Bush caught himself and corrected the date to 1976, and paused to see if she had taken offense.
&#34;She gave me a look that only a mother could give a child,&#34; Bush said with a smile.
The queen later turned the tables on Bush with her toast at a dinner she hosted for the president at the British Embassy in Washington.
&#34;I wondered whether I should start this toast by saying, ‘When I was here in 1776,&#39;&#34; she said to laughter.

      In this Saturday, June 4, 1994, file photo, Britain&#39;s Queen Elizabeth smiles as she sits alongside President Bill Clinton at a dinner in the Guildhall in Portsmouth, England, commemorating the 50th anniversary of D-Day. (AP Photo/Doug Mills, File)
      
BILL CLINTON
LAURA INGRAHAM EXPOSES HOW BIDEN IS SABATAGING AMERICA
The queen hosted Clinton and his wife, Hillary, aboard her royal yacht, Britannia, in June 1994.
The ship, 412 feet (125 meters) long and 55 feet (17 meters) wide, was docked at the Portsmouth Naval Base and was home base for the Clintons as they attended the queen&#39;s dinner at Guildhall for leaders of Allied nations whose troops participated in the D-Day invasion of Normandy 50 years earlier.
The Clintons spent one night aboard the boat. The next day, the Britannia ferried Clinton to the USS George Washington aircraft carrier as it prepared to sail across the English Channel, from Portsmouth to Normandy, for D-Day anniversary celebrations.

      In this May 15, 1991, file photo, U.S. President George H.W. Bush escorts Queen Elizabeth II from the White House to a helicopter en route to Baltimore to watch her first major league baseball game, in Washington. (AP Photo/Doug Mills, File)
      
GEORGE H.W. BUSH
One of the more memorable images from the monarch&#39;s third state visit to the U.S. came in 1991 when only her white-striped purple hat could be seen above the microphones when she spoke at an arrival ceremony on the White House grounds.
Someone forgot to adjust the lectern after the much taller Bush spoke.
The queen stayed strong and carried on, later making light of the incident as she opened an address to a joint meeting of Congress.
&#34;I do hope you can see me today from where you are,&#34; she deadpanned. Bush later apologized and said he felt badly for not pulling out a step for her to stand on.

      The June 10, 1984, file photo shows Queen Elizabeth II, second left, standing with West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, left, U.S. President Ronald Reagan, second right, and Britain&#39;s Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher at London&#39;s Buckingham Palace, prior to a dinner for summit leaders. (AP Photo, File)
      
RONALD REAGAN
MEGAN MARKLE, PRINCE HARRY WANTS TO ‘KEEP THE PEACE’ WITH ROYAL FAMILY, SOURCE CLAIMS, &#39;ALL IS FORGIVEN
Reagan and the queen bonded over their mutual love of horseback riding.
They rode side by side on an 8-mile (13-kilometer), hourlong tour on the grounds of Windsor Castle when Reagan visited her there in June 1982. Reagan was the first president to sleep over at the British royal family&#39;s historic home, an 11th-century estate overlook the River Thames.
While in the U.S. in 1983, the monarch and Philip stayed with the president and first lady Nancy Reagan at their ranch in Santa Barbara, California. She wanted to ride horses again, but a rainstorm wouldn&#39;t allow it. The Reagans served a lunch of regional staples, including enchiladas, chiles rellenos, refried beans, tacos, rice and guacamole.
They also hosted a state dinner for the queen in San Francisco at the M.H. de Young Memorial Museum.

      In this file photo dated May 1977, U.S. President Jimmy Carter, right, and Queen Elizabeth II stand with French President Valery Giscard d&#39;Estaing at Buckingham Palace in London. (AP Photo, File)
      
JIMMY CARTER
The queen hosted Carter in May 1977 on his first overseas trip at a dinner for NATO leaders at Buckingham Palace. At one point, as Carter stood with the queen and other guests, he noticed the arrival of the queen mother.
Ever the Southern gentleman, Carter broke away, took her by the hand and escorted her to the assembled line of guests.
The no-frills Georgia peanut farmer-turned-president ate chicken mousse off a gold plate and seemed excited by his dinner seating between the queen and her sister, Princess Margaret, and across from her son, Prince Charles, Prince Philip and the queen mother.

      In this file photo dated July 7, 1976, U.S. President Gerald Ford dances with Britain&#39;s Queen Elizabeth II in the State Dining Room at the White House following a State Dinner in the queen&#39;s honor. (AP Photo/John Duricka, File)
      
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
GERALD FORD
Ford threw a gala state dinner for the Brits in 1976 to mark the bicentennial of the American Revolution. The queen was resplendent in a diamond-studded tiara that sparkled for a crowd that included diplomats, star athletes and celebrities such as Cary Grant and Julie Harris.
The mood evaporated when Ford led the queen to the dance floor while the song &#34;The Lady Is a Tramp&#34; echoed throughout the State Dining Room.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
