
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden
 is eyeing two Kennedys to serve as ambassadors for the administration overseas, according to a report. 
Sources familiar with the matter told 
Axios
 that Caroline Kennedy is under consideration to be U.S. ambassador to Australia, while Vicki Kennedy is being viewed as a potential pick for Western Europe. 
BIDEN TO NOMINATE LA MAYOR ERIC GARCETTI AS AMBASSADOR TO INDIA: REPORT
Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of former President John F. Kennedy, served as former President Barack Obama’s chief envoy to Tokyo for much of his second term in the White House. She also threw her support behind Biden relatively early in the crowded 2020 Democratic primary process.
In a Boston Globe editorial to announce her endorsement, she praised Biden for his long career as a public servant and fondly recalled Biden visiting Tokyo as vice president while she was ambassador.
&#34;(Biden) stepped off Air Force Two wearing his aviator glasses and a big smile,&#34; she wrote in the Globe ahead of the New Hampshire primary last year. &#34;He radiated American optimism and generosity of spirit. He made clear that America would always stand by our allies, and that we were committed to keeping the region peaceful and prosperous. He delivered tough messages as well, but he did it in private, with skill and respect.&#34;
Meanwhile, Vicki, an attorney at Greenberg Traurig, gun control advocate and the widow of Sen. Ted Kennedy, met Biden through her late husband. Biden, who served with Ted in the Senate for 36 years, 
delivered his eulogy
 in 2009.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Other names on Biden&#39;s list of potential ambassadors reportedly include 
former senior State Department official Nicholas Burns
 to serve as his ambassador to 
China,
 Los Angeles Mayor 
Eric Garcetti
 to be his ambassador to 
India
, and Chicago mayor and former Obama chief of staff 
Rahm Emanuel
 as U.S. ambassador to 
Japan
. 
White House officials have previously declined to comment on the ambassadorship reports, noting &#34;no one is final until they’re announced.&#34; A spokesperson for the White House did not immediately return FOX News&#39; request for comment on the Axios report. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
