
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, speaks at CPAC about cancel culture, uniting conservatives and libertarians, as well as socialism.
Sen. Ted Cruz
 says the GOP is the party of the working class and vows that 
former President Trump
 will remain a power player in 
the Republican Party.
Cruz, the conservative two-term senator from Texas and former and likely future Republican presidential candidate, used his speech Friday at the 
Conservative Political Action Conference
 to paint a populist portrait of a GOP transformed during Trump’s four years in the White House.
CLICK HERE FOR LIVE CPAC UPDATES FROM FOX NEWS
&#34;The Republican Party is not the party just of the country clubs. The Republican Party is the party of steelworkers and construction workers and pipeline workers and taxi cab drivers and cops and firefighters, and waiters and waitresses and the men and women with callouses on their hands who are working for this country. That is our party and these deplorables are here to stay,&#34; Cruz said to loud cheers.
And Cruz, who repeatedly traded fire with Trump during their acrimonious battle for the 2016 GOP presidential campaign but who turned into one the president’s biggest allies in Congress during the Trump administration, charged that Democrats &#34;want him to go away.&#34;
INSIDE CPAC 2021: MAGA HATS, CORONAVIRUS MASKS AND TEMPERATURE CHECKS
&#34;Let me tell you this right now: Donald J. Trump ain’t goin’ anywhere,&#34; Cruz said to a standing ovation.
Cruz also predicted success for the GOP as it tries to win back the House and Senate majorities in the 2022 midterm elections and recapture the White House in 2024.
JOIN CPAC 2021 FROM HOME: HOW TO WATCH STREAMING COVERAGE, EXCLUSIVE CONTENT ON FOX NATION
The senator claimed that &#34;already Joe Biden and the radicals of his administration, they are already overshooting, they are already going too far. Their policies don’t work. They are disasters. They are destroying jobs. They are stripping our freedom.&#34;
&#34;There is a natural pendulum and the country will come back to sanity, and mark my words, 2022 going to be fantastic election year and so is 2024,&#34; Cruz stressed.
Cruz is one of nearly a dozen potential 2024 Republican White House hopefuls speaking at the conference, known by its acronym CPAC. He quipped at the top of his speech &#34;what an amazing array of speakers here at CPAC. For a second there I thought we were in Des Moines.&#34; 
IS TRUMP THE GOP&#39;S FUTURE? HERE&#39;S WHAT CPAC ATTENDEES THINK
Des Moines is the capital and largest city in Iowa, the state that for a half-century has kicked off the presidential nominating calendar.
Cruz also made light of his controversial brief trip with his family to Cancun, Mexico, earlier this month as his home state of Texas was pounded by a deadly winter storm that sparked a severe power and water crisis.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Cruz, who’s acknowledged that his trip to Mexico was a mistake, joked at the top of his speech that &#34;Orlando is awesome. It’s not as nice as Cancun, but it’s nice.&#34;
CPAC, the largest annual gathering of conservative activists and leaders, is being held this year in Orlando, Fla., as coronavirus pandemic restrictions forced organizers to move the half-century-old conference from the Washington, D.C., area. Fox Nation is a sponsor of CPAC 2021.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
