
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News contributor Lara Trump reacts to the Biden Administration&#39;s lack of transparency at the southern border
White House
 Press Secretary Jen Psaki got snippy with a reporter on Wednesday who questioned why 
Vice President Kamala Harris
 had time to visit a Chicago bakery amid the lingering border crisis she has been tasked to deal with. 
The exchange between Psaki and New York Post reporter Steven Nelson came during a press briefing at the White House. 
Nelson noted that although Harris has been put in charge of dealing with the border crisis, she has only spoken with the Guatemalan President and has yet to visit the border or 
Central America
. He then mentioned how the vice president traveled to Chicago this week and took time to visit a bakery. 
&#34;Is she still working on this and can you address the perception that she’s kind of quietly backing off while Secretary Mayorkas is 
pursuing some Trump-era policies
?&#34; Nelson asked. 
Psaki shot back that Harris was visiting Chicago to discuss COVID and the accessibility of the vaccine. 
KAMALA HARRIS PLEDGED TO VISIT BORDER &#39;AT SOME POINT,&#39; BUT TWO WEEKS LATER WHITE HOUSE HAS NO UPDATE
&#34;And so, while she was there, like many Americans, she got a snack. I think she’s allowed to do that,&#34; Psaki said. &#34;But she was there to talk about COVID and play a role as she’s playing a significant role on our efforts to address vaccine hesitancy, communicate with the public about how we can do this and it’s imperative to get the vaccine when it’s available.&#34; 

      Vice President Kamala Harris visits Brown Sugar Bakery Tuesday, April 6, 2021 in Chicago. At right is Illinois Lt. Gov. Juliana Stratton. 
      
(AP)
Harris was in the Windy City on Tuesday, where she toured a vaccination site that opened to union workers. She also visited Brown Sugar Bakery on the city’s South Side, where she met with owners and employees and came away with a 
piece of German chocolate cake
.
She also flew into California on Thursday and stayed through Monday, just a few hours driving distance from the U.S.-Mexico border but also didn&#39;t go to ground zero. 
WHITE HOUSE DEFENDS KAMALA HARRIS&#39; TRAVEL AFTER VISITING PLACES OTHER THAN BORDER
President Biden said last month that Harris has &#34;agreed to lead our diplomatic effort and work with those nations to accept the returnees, and enhance migration enforcement at their borders.&#34; 
Harris made headlines late last month when she 
laughed
 while responding to a question from a reporter who asked if she would be visiting the southern border. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The vice president responded to the query with a &#34;not today&#34; before laughing. She went on to say that she had visited &#34;before&#34; and that she probably would go back. 
Fox News’ Adam Shaw and Houston Keene contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
