
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Both the left and right want to politicize the courts.
Two-thirds of voters want to keep the 
U.S. Supreme Court
’s 1973 abortion decision 
Roe v. Wade
 in place, according to a new 
Fox News survey
 released Thursday.
This comes as the court prepares for its new term, including hearing a case in December concerning 
a Mississippi abortion law
 that will challenge the landmark ruling.
The 65 percent opposed to overturning Roe is a record in Fox polling, up from 61 percent last October and barely eclipsing the previous high of 64 percent in June 2019.
CLICK HERE TO READ THE FULL POLL RESULTS
For the first time, over half of 
Republicans
 (53 percent) join majorities of 
Democrats
 (77 percent) and Independents (64 percent) in saying Roe should remain the law of the land. Seven in 10 White Catholics (72 percent) and about half of White 
evangelical
 Christians also think the decision should stand (49 percent).
Some 28 percent of voters overall think 
Roe 
should be overturned.
Overall views on 
abortion
 are divided. Nearly half (49 percent) think abortion should be legal in all (29 percent) or most cases (20 percent), while the other half (49 percent) say it should only be legal in some cases such as rape, incest, or to save the life of the mother (38 percent) -- or not at all (11 percent).
The current split is down from more voters supporting legal abortion by an 8-point margin in 2020 and by 4 points in 2019.
FOX NEWS POLL: HIGH CONCERN ABOUT CRIME AND ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION, TWO OF BIDEN&#39;S WEAK SPOTS
Seven in 10 Democrats support abortion rights in all (46 percent) or most (24 percent) situations, while seven in 10 Republicans believe abortion should never be legal (19 percent) or only legal in some cases (53 percent).
The controversial 
Texas 
&#34;
Heartbeat Bill
,&#34; which bans most abortions when a fetal heartbeat is detected (usually around six weeks into a pregnancy), went into effect September 1. The law is the first of its kind in the country and the U.S. Supreme Court let it stand in a 5-4 decision late that same night.
&#34;It is hard to imagine Texas Republicans won’t face some backlash from passing an abortion law so extreme that its overall substance is supported by just one in 10 Americans, including just two in 10 Republicans. Not to mention there is more energy among Democrats than Republicans on the issue,&#34; says Democrat Chris Anderson, who conducts the Fox News Poll with Republican Daron Shaw.
FOX NEWS POLL: HALF OF VOTERS ARE UNFAMILIAR WITH CRITICAL RACE THEORY
&#34;Setting the politics aside, what’s interesting to me is that despite the ethical and religious implications of the issue for many, opinions on abortion tend to be quite nuanced,&#34; says Shaw. &#34;While 40 percent say abortion should always be permitted or never be permitted, about 60 percent prefer some sort of ‘middle-ground’ between the rights of the mother and the rights of the unborn. The question is where to draw that line.&#34;
When asked how concerned they are about abortion policy, about six in 10 voters say &#34;extremely&#34; (36 percent) or &#34;very&#34; (26 percent), with more Democrats (68 percent) than Republicans (59 percent) saying the issue worries them.
Other issues are of greater concern to voters, such as 
inflation
/higher prices (82 percent extremely/very concerned), the 
pandemic
 (74 percent), 
Afghanistan
 (73 percent), unemployment (72 percent), and attacks by Islamic terrorists and non-Islamic terrorists alike (70 percent each).
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Concerns about climate change (63 percent) and 
illegal immigration
 (59 percent) rate near abortion policy while fewer worry about neighborhood crime (50 percent).
Conducted September 12-15, 2021 under the joint direction of Beacon Research (D) and Shaw &amp; Company Research (R), this Fox News Poll includes interviews with 1,002 registered voters nationwide who were randomly selected from a national voter file and spoke with live interviewers on both landlines and cellphones.  The total sample has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
