
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Ghislaine Maxwell
 and 
Jeffrey Epstein
 were once 
White House
 guests of former President 
Bill Clinton
, new pictures prove.
The images were published by The Sun, days after Maxwell’s last court appearance on 
sex trafficking
 charges in Manhattan, related to her alleged procurement of underage rape victims for the convicted pedophile.
The disgusting duo were invited to the White House in 1993, after Epstein reportedly donated money to have the Oval Office refurbished.
They toured the East Room and the presidential residence during a reception, the paper reported.
GHISLAINE MAXWELL PLEADS NOT GUILTY TO NEW SEX TRAFFICKING CHARGES 
The pictures expand the timeline of Clinton’s involvement with Epstein and Maxwell.
Prior to their surfacing, some of the oldest photos linking the trio were from 2002, Clinton was photographed aboard Epstein’s private jet along with Maxwell and one of the late billionaires’ rape accusers.
The former president also reportedly had a private dinner with Maxwell in 2014 — long after Epstein was convicted of child sex abuse.
Clinton has denied ever visiting Epstein’s private island in the Bahamas, but accuser Virginia Giuffre has claimed to be on the island at the same time as the ex-president.
A book released last year claims that Clinton had an affair with Maxwell.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Clinton has maintained he was unaware of any sexual misconduct in his dealings with the wealthy financier. Epstein has also socialized with Donald Trump before he was president, and Prince Andrew — who Giuffre claims she was forced to have sex with.
Epstein, facing a slew of sex charges, was found fatally hanged in a Manhattan jail cell in August 2019.
The Florida mansion where he allegedly raped hundreds of girls and women was demolished last week.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
