
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on FoxNews.com.
An effort to move nearly two dozen of 
Oregon’s 
most rural counties into the more conservative neighboring state of 
Idaho 
has gained momentum – with five counties voting this week in favor of having 
local officials
 consider the issue, according to reports. 
The bid has been spearheaded by the Citizens of Greater Idaho, which wants to relocate between 18 and 22 Oregon counties to Idaho, according to FOX 12 in Portland. 
On Tuesday, Sherman, Lake, Grant, Baker and Malheur counties joined two others who voted in November in favor of discussing the issue.  
&#34;The Oregon/Idaho border was established 161 years ago and is now outdated,&#34; Citizens for Greater Idaho says on its website. &#34;It makes no sense in its current location because it doesn’t match the location of the cultural divide in Oregon.
HOUSE PASSES DC STATEHOOD BILL TO MAKE DISTRICT 51ST STATE AFTER HEATED FLOOR DEBATE
The group says it also welcomes parts of southeastern Washington and northeastern California, which also tend to be more conservative than the rest of both of those left-leaning states, to join them.

      The region around the Oregon-Idaho line.
      
Idaho Gov. Brad Little, a Republican, said he supports the measure but acknowledged there&#39;s a long way to go toward making it a reality, The Oregonian reported. 
&#34;I understand why many people want to be Idahoans,&#34; Little said in a statement, according to 
FOX 12.
 &#34;They’re looking at Idaho fondly because of our strong economy, regulatory atmosphere and our values. Still, the decision to change Idaho and Oregon’s borders would need to go through both states’ legislatures and the U.S. Congress for approval. There’s a lot that needs to happen before the border is within the realm of possibility.&#34;
&#34;They’re looking at Idaho fondly because of our strong economy, regulatory atmosphere and our values.&#34; 

      Gov. Brad Little is seen March 25, 2020, in Boise, Idaho. (Getty Images)
      
Oregon Gov. Kate Brown, a Democrat, has not publicly commented on the effort.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;This election proves that rural Oregon wants out of Oregon,&#34; Mike McCarter, president of Move Oregon’s Border for a Greater Idaho, said in a statement, 
The Oregonian 
reported. &#34;If Oregon really believes in liberal values such as self-determination, the Legislature won’t hold our counties captive against our will. If we’re allowed to vote for which government officials we want, we should be allowed to vote for which government we want as well.&#34;
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
