
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The airstrikes in Syria come 2 weeks after an attack against American personnel in Iraq. National security analyst Dr. Rebecca Grant with insight
The 
U.S. military
 carried out an airstrike against an Iranian-backed militia stronghold in Syria Thursday, a senior official told Fox News.
In the first known military action by President Biden, multiple facilities were struck by American F15 fighter jets that targeted Iraqi border-based Shia militia groups, Kait’ib Hezbollah and Kait’ib Sayyid al Shuhada.
Both forces are 
suspected
 of having received funding and military support from Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard.
The senior official said the strike was &#34;shot across the bow&#34; and a defensive strategy, intended to deter Iran and its militia from launching rockets at U.S. forces in the region, like the recent attacks in Iraq.
National Council of Resistance of Iran deputy director Alireza Jafarzadeh discusses U.S. potential rejoining 2015 deal
The Defense Department later confirmed the strikes.
&#34;These strikes were authorized in response to recent attacks against American and coalition personnel in Iraq, and to ongoing threats to those personnel,&#34; Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said Thursday.
IRAQ ROCKET ATTACK KILLS CONTRACTOR, WOUNDS US SERVICE MEMBER, COALITION SAYS
Two rockets landed within the U.S.’s Green Zone in Baghdad Monday, falling near the U.S. embassy and marking the third attack of its kind within a week.
The Green Zone is several miles wide and houses the U.S. embassy and other government buildings.
Though Monday’s strike reported no casualties, a rocket fired in Erbil, Iraq last week 
killed several people
; an American service member and multiple American contractors were injured. 
&#34;We are outraged by the recent attacks,&#34; State Department spokesman Ned Price said Monday.
&#34;When it comes to our response, we will respond in a way that is calculated, within our own timetable, and using a mix of tools at a time and place of our choosing,&#34; he added. &#34;What will not do is lash out and risk an escalation that plays into the hands of Iran and contributes to their attempts to further destabilize Iraq.&#34;
Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warns reengaging Iran will &#39;undermine American national security.&#39;
POMPEO REACTS TO SYRIA AIRSTRIKES 
The Pentagon said the defensive strike Thursday was conducted with diplomatic support and in coordination with coalition partners.
At least one fighter was killed, according to reports citing an Iraqi militia official. 
Reuters
, citing local sources, also reported that at least 17 were dead, while 
The Associated Press
 quoted the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights as saying 22 fighters were killed -- but neither death toll could be confirmed. 
Elsewhere, Russia’s Foreign Ministry on Friday condemned the strikes. 
&#34;We call for the unconditional respect of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria,&#34; spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said, according to 
Reuters
.  
The airstrike was timed to avoid large-scale casualties and targeted a command hub. The extent of the damage and casualties hit will be known after a bomb assessment is complete, security officials told Fox News. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;The operation sends an unambiguous message -- President Biden will act to protect American coalition personnel,&#34; Kirby told reporters Thursday.
&#34;At the same time, we have acted in a deliberate manner that aims to deescalate the overall situation in both Eastern Syria and Iraq,&#34; he added.
Fox News&#39; Lucas Tomlinson and Greg Norman contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
