
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Ohio Republican lists everything that has risen in price since Biden took office
A new book coming this autumn by 
Rep. Jim Jordan
 promises to give a behind-the-scenes look at some of the biggest moments for the 
Republican Party
 during 
Donald Trump
&#39;s presidential victory and his four years in the White House.
Jordan, the close Trump ally and eight-term GOP lawmaker who represents 
Ohio
&#39;s 4th Congressional District, tells Fox News that his &#34;book is about fighting to do what you said you’d do, standing up to the establishment, and taking on the Swamp.&#34;
JORDAN SOUNDS OFF ON WHAT HE CALLS BIDEN&#39;S ‘AMERICA LAST’ POLICY
According to a listing by the publisher 
Simon and Schuster
, 
&#34;
Do What You Said You Would Do: Fighting for Freedom in the Swamp&#34; will release in hardcover on Nov. 23.
A description of the book highlights that readers will &#34;get an inside look at the detailed investigations of the United States Congress, the groundwork for Donald Trump’s win in 2016, and the events that occurred during his successful four years as president.&#34;

      Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, speaks during a House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis hybrid hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, May 19, 2021. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, Pool)
      
(AP Photo/Susan Walsh, Pool)
The book, which will retail for $27, is Jordan’s second. He also wrote &#34;Victory at the Training Table: A Guide to Sports Nutrition,&#34; which reflects on his years as an assistant wrestling coach at the Ohio State University.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Jordan, a founding member and first chair of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, is one of most influential members of the Republican House conference. He currently serves as the top Republican – or ranking member – on the powerful House Judiciary Committee. Earlier this year he mulled but passed on launching a 2022 campaign to succeed retiring GOP Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
