
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden&#39;s
 six-prong plan to fight 
COVID-19
 will include vaccine and mask requirements, a 
White House
 official told Fox News Thursday. 
The White House has teased all week that the president will detail his six-prong plan to battle the COVID-19 pandemic, as cases rise in many parts of the country because of the more contagious delta variant. Those prongs will be vaccine requirements; booster shots; keeping schools open; increasing testing and requiring masks; economic recovery; and improving patient care. 
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION TO MANDATE COVID VACCINE FOR FEDERAL WORKERS, CONTRACTORS
The initial list of the president&#39;s plan is very light on details. It is not clear, for example, exactly who the president is going to call on to require masks – states, local governments, businesses, some combination of the three, or something entirely different.  

      President Joe Biden speaks during a meeting about cybersecurity, in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Aug. 25, 2021, in Washington. Biden will deliver an address Thursday about the COVID-19 pandemic. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
It&#39;s similarly unclear who the president will be asking to impose vaccine mandates. Currently, most vaccine mandates are coming from employers rather than governments. 
Biden is likely to expand on those details and more in an address set for 5 p.m. Thursday. 
Potentially indicating where Biden will go on vaccine mandates, the president will sign an executive order Thursday requiring federal workers and contractors to be vaccinated, Fox News confirmed per a source familiar with the plans. 
CDC TIGHTENED MASKING GUIDELINES AFTER THREATS FROM TEACHERS UNION, EMAILS SHOW
The source noted that this mandate is essentially an extension of previous mandates the Defense Department, Department of Veterans Affairs, the Indian Health Service and the National Institutes of Health were already in the process of implementing. Those mandates covered about 2.5 million people. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain appeared to allude that Biden will announce more than just the executive order on federal workers as part of his plan to increase vaccination rates. 
&#34;Vaccines work. Later today, 
@POTUS 
will announce new steps to get more people vaccinated,&#34; he tweeted. 
Fox News&#39; Kristina Biddle and Brooke Singman contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
