
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
 Former NASA astronaut Mike Massimino weighs in on the tourism missions into space following Blue Origin founder Jeff Bezos&#39;s trip on the aerospace company&#39;s New Shepard rocket for its first-ever crewed launch.
Amazon
 and Blue Origin founder 
Jeff Bezos
 safely returned to Earth after a brief launch into space, much to the chagrin of former congresswoman 
Tulsi Gabbard
.
Prior to Bezos&#39; liftoff Tuesday morning, the former Democratic presidential hopeful tweeted that the world&#39;s richest man should stay out there rather than come back and join the rest of humanity.
LIVE: BLUE ORIGIN CREW, JEFF BEZOS LAND SAFELY AFTER SPACEFLIGHT
&#34;Bezos, please stay up there. Do the world a favor,&#34; Gabbard said.
&#34;The only problem I have with Bezos’ Blue Origin space rocket ship into outer space is that it’s going to come back,&#34; she added.
HOW JEFF BEZOS, BLUE ORIGIN CREW TRAINED FOR HISTORIC SPACEFLIGHT
Gabbard has been critical of Bezos in the past. In 2019 she 
slammed
 him for not allowing Amazon workers to unionize, and 
called out Amazon
 for reporting a large tax rebate after supposedly making $11.2 billion in profit. 
Bezos returned from his brief trek to space before 10 a.m. Eastern Time. He went with his brother Mark Bezos, 82-year-old Mercury 13 
aerospace pioneer Wally Funk
 and 18-year-old Oliver Daemen. Blue Origin said before the flight that the astronauts on board had to undergo training for 14 hours over a 2-day span.
&#34;Our
 
training is comprehensive and gets crew prepped for everything they need to know about the vehicle,&#34; Blue Origin lead flight director Steve Lanius said.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Lanius added that the spaceflight company&#39;s astronaut training was 
fully compliant with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
 requirements. 
It was Blue Origin&#39;s first manned space flight, coming days after Virgin Galactic sent billionaire founder Richard Branson to space.
Fox News&#39; Julia Musto and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
