
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Even 
Rudy Giuliani
 is more popular with New Yorkers at the moment than 
Bill de Blasio
, 
a new Siena College poll shows.
The Republican former New York City mayor and current lawyer and adviser to 
President Trump
 came in a full 4 percentage points ahead of the embattled de Blasio — who is a Democrat, as is more than half the state.
De Blasio garnered a measly 28 percent favorable rating compared to Giuliani’s 32 percent in the survey released Tuesday.
By comparison, New York Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 had a 57 percent favorable rate, just above incoming Vice President Kamala Harris’ 56 percent.
Meanwhile, President-elect 
Joe Biden
 received a 62 percent favorable rating, Vice President Mike Pence had 42 percent, and Trump won 30 percent.
BILL DE BLASIO SAYS NYC WILL RUN OUT OF COVID-19 VACCINE BY FRIDAY
The survey also included how many New Yorkers viewed the pols unfavorably.
Giuliani slightly edged out de Blasio in that category, with a 56 percent rating vs. the mayor’s 53 percent.

      NewYork City Mayor Bill de Blasio, left, garnered a measly 28 percent favorable rating compared to Rudy Giuliani’s 32 percent in the survey released Tuesday.
      
The poll surveyed a sampling of New York’s registered voters between Jan. 10 and 13.
Giuliani was hailed
 as &#34;America’s mayor’’
 in the aftermath of 9/11 because of his admired handling of the crisis.
He went on to become Trump’s personal lawyer and
 has argued
 that the presidential election in November was stolen from his boss, only to be derided by critics.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
He also 
called for a &#34;trial by combat&#34;
 in a fiery speech before Trump took the podium in DC on Jan. 6 — just before hundreds of gathered Trump supporters laid siege to the Capitol, resulting in its ransacking and the deaths of five, including a Capitol Police officer.
Meanwhile, de Blasio 
has been hit from all sides
 over his slew of failed promises through two terms, including on city crime and quality-of-life issues, alleged inequities in the public schools, homelessness and the Big Apple’s fiscal crisis.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
