
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Reacting to the shooting outside the Washington Nationals baseball stadium over the weekend, MSNBC&#39;s Andrea Mitchell said Washington, D.C., was improving on safety while also noting it&#39;s again surpassed 100 homicides for the year before the end of July.
Earlier this month, the nation’s capital hit a morbid milestone of 100 murders, and 
Democrats
 
that have supported defunding the 
police
 have been silent.
Washington, D.C.,
 reached its 100th homicide on July 9.
Fox News reached out to multiple members of the far-left 
&#34;Squad&#34;
 in the 
House of Representatives
 for comment on the deadly shootings and if they believed the defund the police push had anything to do with the grim milestone being reached so early.
WASHINGTON, DC, RECORDS 100 HOMICIDES BY JULY 10 FOR FIRST TIME SINCE 2003
Democratic Reps. 
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez
, Jamaal Bowman and Mondaire Jones of New York; 
Ilhan Omar
 of Minnesota; 
Rashida Tlaib
 of Michigan; Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts and Cori Bush of Missouri did not respond to Fox News’ requests for comment.
The victim of the 100th homicide, 45-year-old Willie Parker, was 
killed 
July 9 as crime continues to rise across the country.
The last time Washington, D.C., hit 100 homicides this early was in 2003. On average, the nation’s capital sees that many murders by Oct. 25. According to crime statistics on the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department&#39;s 
website
, D.C. is one homicide away from matching last year&#39;s total for homicides at 104. 
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser also did not respond to Fox News’ request for comment but asked 
President Biden
 for help last week after the milestone and sent a 
letter
 on Monday &#34;directing the Metropolitan Police Department to use any overtime necessary to meet our public safety needs.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Bowser, a Democrat, met with Biden last week on the rampant rise in murders in cities across America.
The D.C. city council 
voted
 last year to shift a $23 million school security contract from the Metropolitan Police Department to the city’s public schools. The city has seen a 3% rise in homicides over the course of this year — only adding to the 19% rise seen in 2020.
Bowser has 
opposed
 defunding the police.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
