
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox &amp; Friends Weekend co-hosts Pete Hegseth and Will Cain discuss the Israel cease-fire and the crisis at the border.
Border Patrol agents
 in the Del Rio Sector in Texas arrested 10 convicted sex offenders in a single week as they tried to get into the U.S. illegally -- the 
latest batch of criminals
 nabbed by agents at the border.
The arrests were made between May 17 and24, Border Patrol said in a statement, with nationals from Honduras and Mexico among those arrested.
BORDER PATROL ARRESTS TWO MORE CONVICTED CHILD SEX OFFENDERS AS PART OF MIGRANT WAVE 
The convictions of those apprehended include forcible sexual assault, sexual assault of a child under 14, sexual conduct with a person under 13, statutory rape, second-degree sexual assault of a child, and lewd and lascivious acts with a child.
&#34;The majority of these criminals were apprehended in our sector’s most remote areas, attempting to avoid detection by crossing far from populated areas,&#34; Del Rio Sector Chief Patrol Agent Austin Skero said in a statement. &#34;Our agents’ sign cutting and tracking skills were instrumental in capturing these criminals, preventing them from infiltrating our communities.&#34;
The arrests come days after Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced that agents near Abrams, Texas, arrested a Salvadoran man who had been arrested in Washington for the rape of a child and later convicted and sentenced to 34 months in prison and community service.
The migrant group he was traveling with included one unaccompanied child, CBP said in a release.
TEXAS REPUBLICANS RIP BIDEN AFTER BORDER PATROL CAPTURES CONVICTED SEX PREDATORS ILLEGALLY CROSSING BORDER
Earlier this month, agents in Mission, Texas, arrested a 49-year-old Salvadoran who had entered the U.S. illegally and had a previous conviction for sexual contact of a 9-year-old in New York City. He was sentenced in 2014 to a year in jail for second-degree sexual abuse.
BORDER PATROL NABS 3 CONVICTED CHILD SEX OFFENDERS IN 2 DAYS, AMID MIGRANT SURGE
In March, 
CBP announced
 the arrest of multiple convicted &#34;sexual predators&#34; caught trying to enter illegally, including some with child sex convictions.
In April, 
the agency announced
 that in a span of just two days, it had picked up three convicted child sex offenders among groups of illegal immigrants. One had been charged with aggravated sexual battery of a victim under 13 and was later convicted in Virginia.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In its statement this week, Border Patrol in Del Rio Sector said it has so far arrested 95 convicted sex offenders this fiscal year -- a massive 3,166% increase over the same period last year.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
