
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox Nation host Tammy Bruce discusses the allegations against New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Vice President Harris&#39; silence on the issue.
Police
 Thursday received word from the governor&#39;s own office that New York Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 may have been involved in an incident that could be a crime. The report was made by the New York State Executive Chamber as a matter of protocol in cases involving physical contact.
The incident allegedly involved a female aide and took place at Cuomo&#39;s executive mansion. The woman herself has not filed a complaint.
The development comes as the governor faces multiple allegations of sexual harassment. On Wednesday, the 
Albany Times Union
 reported that a woman said Cuomo aggressively groped her at the mansion.
SCHUMER WON&#39;T SAY IF CUOMO SHOULD RESIGN, BACKS &#39;THOROUGH INVESTIGATION&#39;
&#34;As a matter of state policy when allegations of physical contact are made, the agency informs the complainant that they should contact their local police department,&#34; said Beth Garvey, Acting Counsel to the Governor, in a statement provided to Fox News. The agency is the Executive Chamber.
&#34;If they decline, the agency has an obligation to reach out themselves and inform the department of the allegation. In this case the person is represented by counsel and when counsel confirmed the client did not want to make a report, the state notified the police department and gave them the attorney’s information,&#34; Garvey said.
Police have not opened an official investigation, but they are offering their services to the woman who is the alleged victim, as is their policy, 
The New York Times
 reported.
At least six women have accused Cuomo of misconduct -- adding to the mounting scrutiny the governor faces for his handling of the pandemic.
SILENCE ON CUOMO CONTINUES FOR KAMALA HARRIS, WHO CRUSADED AGAINST BRETT KAVANAUGH
The allegation reported Wednesday entailed a female aide being summoned to the executive mansion late last year under the apparent pretext she would help Cuomo with a technical issue with his mobile phone. According to the Times-Union, Cuomo allegedly reached under her blouse and began to fondle her while they were on the second floor.
Cuomo has denied the accusation, saying on Wednesday, &#34;I have never done anything like this.&#34; 
Wednesday&#39;s allegation was the sixth to date and came as the state&#39;s attorney general, Letitia James, 
was assembling a team
 to investigate the claims.
Cuomo has said he is &#34;confident&#34; in the result of James&#39; investigation.
After multiple allegations surfaced in February, the governor released a statement in which he denied inappropriately touching anybody but acknowledged his jokes at work might have been misinterpreted.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;I now understand that my interactions may have been insensitive or too personal and that some of my comments, given my position, made others feel in ways I never intended,&#34; he said.
&#34;I acknowledge some of the things I have said have been misinterpreted as an unwanted flirtation. To the extent anyone felt that way, I am truly sorry about that. To be clear I never inappropriately touched anybody and I never propositioned anybody and I never intended to make anyone feel uncomfortable, but these are allegations that New Yorkers deserve answers to.&#34;
His responses, however, have been met with mounting calls for resignation among dozens of lawmakers in the state.
The latest scandal has prompted greater scrutiny, however, of prominent Democratic politicians who were outspoken about other allegations of sexual misconduct, like those involving Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
