
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
California radio host Mike Slater on Gov, Gavin Newsom suggesting he is getting criticized for California’s success.
California 
Gov. Gavin Newsom
 and Vice President Kamala Harris will require those who attend their upcoming car rally to prove that they have either received a COVID-19 vaccine or have a negative COVID-19 test.
&#34;Security and health protocols will be in place,&#34; 
the event description reads
. &#34;Must provide proof of vaccine or negative test within 72 hours for driver and all attendees in car.&#34;
The description also encourages attendees to bring a mask with them to the event.
The move comes despite the fact that the attendees will stay in their cars throughout the rally.
NEWSOM RECALL: LARRY ELDER SAYS HE WILL REPEAL MASK, VACCINE MANDATES IF HE WINS ELECTION
California has experienced a recent spike in COVID-19 cases, largely driven by the delta variant of the virus, with the state recording 
8,200 patients in hospitals
 and nearly 2,000 in intensive care units.
The spike comes as Newsom looks to fend of a recall challenge, with the election 
slated to take place
 on Sept. 14.
Harris decided to swing through California in an attempt to help the embattled governor, campaigning with Newsom in the Bay Area Friday as the election quickly approaches.
&#34;I am excited to join my friend and our Vice President next week,&#34; 
Newsom said in a statement
. &#34;The stakes of this election couldn&#39;t be higher.&#34;
Voters will be faced with two questions on their recall ballot. The first asks whether or not Newsom should be removed from his position as governor. The second asks voters to select their preferred candidate to replace him. Voters can select their preferred replacement even if they vote &#34;no&#34; on whether Newsom should be removed.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
A majority must vote yes on the first question in order to remove Newsom from office, while the candidate selected to replace him will only need a plurality of the vote in the second question if Newsom gets recalled.
Conservative radio host 
Larry Elder
 is 
currently the front-runner
 to replace the governor if voters choose to remove Newsom from office.
Michael Lee is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@UAMichaelLee
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
