
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
President 
Joe Biden
 is announcing Thursday that all employers with more than 100 workers will be forced to require coronavirus 
vaccinations
 or test employees weekly.
The mandate will be announced Thursday afternoon and is expected to affect as many as 100 million Americans. 
CALIFORNIA PROFESSOR SUES OVER VACCINE MANDATE, SAYS HE HAS NATURAL IMMUNITY
The expansive rules mandate that all employers with more than 100 workers require them to be vaccinated or test for the virus weekly, affecting about 80 million Americans. And the roughly 17 million workers at health facilities that receive federal Medicare or Medicaid also will have to be fully vaccinated.
Biden will have OSHA make a rule requiring employees of companies to be tested. Companies will have to pay for the testing, but they can pass the cost on to employees.
Biden is also signing an executive order to require vaccination for employees of the executive branch and contractors who do business with the federal government — with no option to test instead. That covers several million more workers.
LOS ANGELES PUBLIC SCHOOL BOARD TO VOTE THURSDAY ON STUDENT VACCINE MANDATE
In addition to the vaccination requirements, Biden is moving to double federal fines for airline passengers who refuse to wear masks on flights or to maintain face-covering requirements on federal property in accordance with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines.
The rule would also require that large companies provide paid time off for vaccination.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
According to Forbes
, businesses that refuse to comply with the mandate will open themselves up to hefty fines up to nearly $14,000 per violation.
In July, 
White House
 Press Secretary Jen Psaki 
told
 reporters that a federal vaccine mandate was &#34;not the role of the federal government.&#34;
Edward Lawrence and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
