
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
An FBI agent
 who worked the controversial investigation into the alleged plot to kill 
Michigan’s governor
 was arrested earlier this week for assaulting his wife after the two went to a swingers party, a local report said.
G-Man Richard Trask of Kalamazoo repeatedly slammed his wife’s head into a nightstand and choked her with both hands before she stopped the attack by grabbing his crotch on Sunday, 
The Detroit News
 reported, citing a court affidavit.
Trask’s wife’s chest, clothes and hand were covered in blood and she had &#34;severe&#34; bruises on around her neck, the affidavit reportedly said.
FBI FILES ON MURDERED BOSTON  MOB BOSS ‘WHITEY’ BULGER DECLASSIFIED
The two had come home after attending an Oshtempo Township hotel event the publication called &#34;a swingers party.&#34; After some drinks, they argued on the way home about how Trask’s wife didn’t enjoy the party, the News stated.
Once home, he allegedly got on top of her in bed and &#34;smashed&#34; her head into the nightstand several times before she tried to grab his beard to get free, the affidavit said. That’s when he allegedly choked her, the News reported.
Trask, 39, was arrested Monday and was released on bond, the News said.
&#34;In accordance with FBI policy, the incident is subject to internal review, and I cannot comment further at this time,&#34; FBI spokeswoman Mara Schneider told LawandCrime.com
He is facing up to 10 years in prison on a charge of assault with intent to do great bodily harm, according to the News.

      From left to right: Joseph Morrison, Paul Bellar, and Pete Musico. (Jackson County Sheriff&#39;s Office/ Alvin S. Glenn Detention Center)
      
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Trask’s affidavit was used in charges against the people accused of plotting to kidnap and kill 
Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer
 in retaliation of her 
COVID-19
 shutdown orders, the Associated Press reported. Trask testified in the case, the AP said.
Some 14 people allegedly part of a group called the Wolverine Watchmen were charged in the plot, but the men have pushed back and said they were set up by the FBI because of their political views.
Click 
here
 to read more on the 
New York Post
.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
