
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
California
 candidate for governor 
Larry Elder
 had his campaign event halted Wednesday after protesters shot his security detail with a pellet gun.
&#34;Today I kicked off the Recall Express bus tour. Before we even left Los Angeles, my security detail was physically assaulted, shot with a pellet gun, and hit with projectiles,&#34; the Republican candidate said in a statement on Twitter. &#34;The intolerant left will not stop us. We will recall Gavin Newsom. We will save California.&#34;
Pellet guns can cause serious injury, particularly at close range.
VENICE BEACH VIOLENCE REACHES BOILING POINT IN L.A. AS NEW VIRAL VIDEO EMERGES
Elder&#39;s statement comes after 
videos surfaced
 earlier Wednesday of a masked protester throwing eggs at Elder as he campaigned through the Venice neighborhood of Los Angeles.
The video shows Elder walking through the neighborhood as an egg thrower narrowly missed the candidate.
&#34;We&#39;re getting egged from behind,&#34; a member of his security detail can be heard saying.
Elder&#39;s security team then quickly escorted him to a waiting SUV and departed the area.
Elder, who would be the first Black governor of California if elected, is currently the 
leading candidate
 to replace current Gov. Gavin Newsom if the recall effort against Newsom were to be successful next week.
But voters in California may be more inclined to stick with their current governor, with polls showing that the effort to remove Newsom from office faces a double-digit deficit as the election nears.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
California voters are faced with two questions on the recall ballot, the first being whether or not they vote to remove the current governor from office. If a majority of voters believe Newsom should be removed, only a plurality is required to determine the state&#39;s next governor.
Michael Lee is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@UAMichaelLee
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
