
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt on his state&#39;s lawsuit against the Biden admin for revoking Trump border policies.
Department of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, who is said to have agreed to weekly meetings with 
border
 sheriffs last week, has not followed through on that commitment.
Cochise County, Arizona, Sheriff Mark Dannels, who was at the meeting with Mayorkas last week, told Fox News on Wednesday thatn Mayorkas had agreed to weekly sessions, but one week later, no meetings have been set up.
Dannels added that Mayorkas’ commitment to the sheriffs would be a &#34;true test.&#34;
A spokesperson for the Department of Homeland Security did not return Fox News’ request for comment.
DHS SECRETARY MAYORKAS SAID TO AGREE TO REGULAR MEETINGS WITH BORDER SHERIFFS
As 
previously reported by Fox News
, Mayorkas met with sheriffs in El Paso, Texas, about the situation at the 
U.S. border
 last Thursday, during his third trip to the border since taking on his role in the administration.
At the time, Dannels asked for weekly meetings with Mayorkas, which he told Fox News was agreed to.
&#34;Currently we asked [to meet with the Secretary] for once a week, whether that’s through zoom, conference calling, in-person, or whatever needs to happen based on where we’re at today with the border,&#34; Dannels said. &#34;So that’s in the process of being set up and hopefully this will now turn into action for the good of the people.&#34;
Dannels said everyone present agreed that the sheriffs need to work more closely with DHS to build on &#34;shared missions.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
The administration is facing several lawsuits over its immigration policies, including the decision to eliminate the so-called &#34;Remain in Mexico&#34; policy.
This week, the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Health and Human Services released data showing the U.S. had more than 21,000 unaccompanied minor children in custody.
Vice President Kamala Harris 
said on Wednesday
 that she will travel to Guatemala and Mexico to look into the root causes of the immigration problems at the border. But she has not been to the border itself since the crisis began.
Fox News’ Kelly Laco contributed to this report.
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
