
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Rep. Mariannette Miller-Meeks, R-Iowa, provides insight on ‘CAVUTO Live.’
The leader of the House Freedom Caucus is asking the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) whether House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
, D-Calif., consulted with the scientists before continuing the 
coronavirus
 mask mandate in the 
House
 chamber. 
Rep. Andy Biggs, R-Ariz., penned a letter to Dr. 
Rochelle Walensky
 Thursday asking just one question: Did Pelosi or the Capitol physician consult with her or anyone at the CDC prior to extending the House mask mandate and social distancing protocols on May 14?
&#34;It is imperative that the American people know that their elected leaders, particularly the Speaker of the House, are making public policy decisions based on the evidence, not conjecture or what is in their political interests,&#34; Biggs wrote. 
PELOSI DITCHES MASK AT WHITE HOUSE WHILE DOUBLING DOWN ON HOUSE FLOOR RULES
The CDC 
issued new guidance
 on May 13 saying that masks are not necessary for fully vaccinated people in most circumstances. The CDC made exceptions for requirements by federal and state laws and guidelines set out by employers and businesses. While the White House followed by lifting its mask requirement, the House did not. 
Freedom Caucus Letter to CD...
 by 
Fox News
Pelosi and the Capitol Attending Physician Dr. Brian Monahan have said the House mask requirement will remain unchanged until all House members are fully vaccinated. She previously estimated that about 75% of House members have gotten the coronavirus shots and said if Republicans want to go maskless on the House floor they need to encourage their colleagues to get jabbed.
HOUSE FINES 4 MEMBERS FOR IGNORING MASK POLICY ON THE FLOOR, WARNS 7 OTHERS
Monahan previously said the House mask rules are entirely consistent with CDC guidelines and &#34;
endorsed by an expert CDC panel
.&#34;
Some Republicans have been revolting against the continued mask mandates and have been 
slapped with $500 fines
 for violating the rules. Subsequent offenses can amount to a $2,500 fine. 
The CDC did not respond to repeated requests for comment last week from Fox News on who from the CDC advised the House on the mask rules and why they appear to run counter to advice for the general public. 

      UNITED STATES - May 18: CDC Director Rochelle Walensky arrives to testify before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies for its hearing on Review of the FY2022 Budget Blueprint for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Washington on Wednesday, May 19, 2021. (Photo by Caroline Brehman/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)
      
Walensky faced questioning Wednesday during a 
House appropriations subcommittee
 hearing from Rep. Andy Harris, R-Md., on whether the House consulted with her before implementing the new rules.
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION OWES TEXAS HOSPITAL CARING FOR MIGRANT MINORS MORE THAN $200,000
&#34;We&#39;ve been in contact with both the Capitol Physician as well as the Speaker&#39;s office,&#34; Walensky said, though was vague on whether she offered input on the specific new rules. 
Walensky said the new CDC guidelines were meant to inform individual decisions and but broader public policy measures still need to be made at the local level based on the data in that community. 
Harris said he wasn&#39;t getting &#34;a straight answer&#34; and accused Walensky of dodging. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;This is why America doesn&#39;t trust public health officials,&#34; Harris said Wednesday. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
