
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributor reacts to Dr. Fauci clarifying his remarks on canceling Christmas amid COVID-19.
Peter Navarro, 
President Trump’s
 former trade adviser, called 
Dr. Anthony Fauci
 &#34;evil&#34; Wednesday for the role he played in gain-of-function research prior to the outbreak of the 
COVID-19
 pandemic. 
Navarro made the comments during a Wednesday 
interview
 on the Seattle-based Jason Rantz Show. 

      Peter Navarro
      
The former White House trade adviser was discussing his new book, &#34;In Trump Time,&#34; which chronicles the Trump administration’s final year in office as it battled the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Navarro downplayed the idea that the Trump administration was not proactive enough in the early days of the pandemic. 
Rantz argued that the liberal media didn’t hold back in criticizing Trump’s response to the pandemic yet propped up Dr. Anthony Fauci as a &#34;God-like&#34; figure despite his flip-flopping on issues. 
Fauci, who serves as director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, became a household name during the pandemic. 
FAUCI SLAMMED FOR CLAIMING IT&#39;S ‘TOO SOON’ TO CONSIDER CHRISTMAS GATHERINGS
Navarro recounted how he and Fauci got into a &#34;screaming match&#34; within the first three minutes of meeting each other in the situation room over the former’s unwillingness to impose a travel ban. 
&#34;I came out of there thinking, ‘Wow, that guy thinks he’s smarter than he is,’ and two, more importantly, ‘That guy’s going to hurt us and the president,’&#34; Navarro said. 
Rantz asked Navarro if he thought Trump made a mistake in not firing Fauci and allowing him to get the media attention he did. 
Navarro said he advised Trump on at least two occasions to fire Fauci but doesn’t blame the president for not taking his advice. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;But it was a mistake for the republic because that man is evil. Make no mistake about this. He is evil because he was at the American bureaucracy that used taxpayer dollars&#34; to pursue gain-of-function experiments, Navarro said. He was referring to research that seeks to find new ways to fight disease by rendering pathogens more infectious and lethal. 
Dr. Fauci did not respond to Fox News&#39;s request for comment. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
