
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Theresa Sari, who lost mother in New York nursing home, joins &#39;Fox &amp;amp; Friends First.&#39; 
A 
Washington Post
 report revealed that individuals with ties to 
New York
 Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 were given preferential treatment when it came to getting tested for COVID-19, with a Department of Health physician even making house calls to Cuomo&#39;s brother, CNN anchor Chris Cuomo.
That doctor was Eleanor Adams, a Westchester physician who at the time was working on coordinating testing issues for nursing homes and other settings viewed as high-risk.
CHRIS CUOMO REPORTEDLY RECEIVED EVEN MORE ATTENTION THAN OTHER &#39;VIPs&#39; DURING COVID TESTS
Who is Adams?
Adams, a graduate of Harvard Medical School, had a senior position in the state according to the Post report. The 
Albany Times Union
 reported that in August Adams became an adviser to New York Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker.
It was in mid-March, during the beginning of the pandemic, that Adams conducted testing for Cuomo&#39;s family members, reportedly visiting Chris Cuomo&#39;s home in the Hamptons to get samples from him and his family members. This was at a time when it was far more difficult to get tested than it is currently.
DAUGHTER OF NY NURSING HOME VICTIM SLAMS GOV. CUOMO OVER PRIORITIZED TESTING FOR BROTHER, A CNN ANCHOR
According to the Times Union, Adams was frequently taken away from her regular duties to help with the tests, that a source told the newspaper could have been done by a nurse. At the time, Adams was working in New Rochelle, New York, the site of the state&#39;s first major outbreak.
Adams also had a private practice in New Rochelle, and in the past has worked in New York City&#39;s regional office of the Healthcare Epidemiology &amp; Infection Control Program.
Fox News reached out to the New York Department of Health to contact Adams, but they did not immediately respond.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Adams&#39; name was in the news earlier this month, as she was the lead official on a June 2020 report that included a count of how many nursing home residents had died from COVID-19. According to 
The New York Times
, and 
The Wall Street Journal
, Cuomo aides changed the report, taking that data out and leaving it unclear as to how many nursing casualties there had been.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
