
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Progressive U.S. Rep. 
Karen Bass
, D-
Calif
., said Tuesday she was &#34;seriously considering&#34; 
a run
 for 
Los Angeles
 mayor. 
Just weeks ago, Bass, who serves the Los Angeles area, told the L.A. Times she was focusing on her job in Congress and didn’t plan to campaign for mayor. 
Bass changed her mind following a weeks-long online campaign from local progressives asking her to run and a poll that came out last week that showed her as a potential frontrunner. 
The congresswoman received about 27% of support in the survey by a public opinion research firm, far more than any of the other potential and mostly lesser-known candidates included in the poll, according to 
City News Service
. 
&#34;I have been overwhelmed and humbled by people pushing for me to do this, and I will say that I am seriously considering it,&#34; Bass told the LAist on Tuesday. It &#34;was not something I had thought about before — I was planning to run for reelection. I am evaluating the situation now.&#34;
LOS ANGELES MAYOR GARCETTI TAPPED BY BIDEN TO BE AMBASSADOR TO INDIA
Bass is in her sixth term in Congress and is known for being outspoken on progressive issues but also for her bipartisanship, for which she received an award in 2009. She’s been working across the aisle on police reform and has spoken out against the Defund the Police movement. Bass is also the chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. 

      U.S. Rep. Karen Bass, D-Calif., talks to reporters Sept. 23, 2020. (Getty Images)
      
Last year, she was considered as Biden’s vice presidential running mate before Kamala Harris was chosen. 
Bass started her career as a community activist in L.A. and has called the city&#39;s homeless problem a &#34;humanitarian crisis&#34; and said the political rhetoric around it could tear the city apart, according to the 
LAist.
Councilmember Mark Ridley-Thomas, an ally of Bass, announced weeks ago he didn&#39;t plan to run and told 
Los Angeles Magazine
 that L.A. would be &#34;fortunate&#34; to have her leadership if she chose to campaign for mayor. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Current Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti was nominated in July by longtime ally President Biden to become U.S. ambassador to India.
Garcetti&#39;s term ends in December 2022. If confirmed as ambassador, the city council would select an interim mayor to finish his term. 
Other candidates vying for the mayoralty include Councilman Joe Buscaino, City Attorney Mike Feuer, and businessman Mel Wilson, the 
Los Angeles Times reported.
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
