
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
A member of 
CIA
 Director Bill Burns’ team experienced symptoms consistent with the elusive 
Havana Syndrome
 in a recent trip to India, Fox News confirmed Tuesday.
The CIA has not commented on the incident, but sources familiar with the event said it was the second time in a month that a U.S. official exhibited symptoms related to the mysterious ailment. 
CIA TAPS NEW &#39;HAVANA SYNDROME&#39; TASK FORCE LEADER WHO ONCE SPEARHEADED USAMA BIN LADEN SEARCH EFFORT: REPORTS
The official traveling with Burns received immediate medical attention upon returning to the U.S., first reported CNN.
Last month, a trip to Vietnam for Vice President Kamala Harris was delayed after two U.S. personnel were believed to have experienced symptoms consistent with Havana Syndrome.
The condition first emerged in 2016 when 
26 diplomats
 and their families in Havana, Cuba, reported unusual cases of dizziness, headache, fatigue, nausea, anxiety, cognitive difficulties, memory loss and even brain damage. 
In the five years since the first reported cases, more than 
200 incidents
 have been reported among diplomats and defense officials. 
KAMALA HARRIS ARRIVES IN VIETNAM AFTER DELAY OVER POSSIBLE &#39;HAVANA SYNDROME&#39; CASE
Cases have been also reported in Russia, China, Austria and Germany.
Both Russia and Vietnam have denied involvement in perpetuating the ailment.
The CIA launched a task force in December to investigate the cause of Havana Syndrome after scientists for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine identified &#34;directed, pulsed radio frequency (RF) energy&#34; as the most likely cause of the mysterious condition. 
The undercover official tapped with spearheading the agency’s search for Usama bin Laden will now lead the CIA’s effort in locating whether an individual or group is behind the ailment targeting U.S. officials abroad. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Burns has reportedly made the Havana Syndrome phenomenon a top priority for the intelligence agency as some believe U.S. officials have been intentionally targeted. 
The Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines also announced a 100-day probe into the source of Havana Syndrome and how to counter it.
Danielle Wallace contributed to this report.
Jennifer Griffin currently serves as a national security correspondent for FOX News Channel . She joined FNC in October 1999 as a Jerusalem-based correspondent. You can follow her on Twitter at 
@JenGriffinFNC
.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
