
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Bill pushed to governor’s desk said to be the strongest Second Amendment legislation in state history; firearms reporter Stephen Gutowski with insight.
Texas Gov. 
Greg Abbott
 signed a &#34;constitutional carry&#34; bill into law on Wednesday that will allow Texans to 
carry a handgun
 in public without a license starting on Sept. 1. 
Under 
current law
, residents must go through training, submit fingerprints, show handgun proficiency and pay a $40 application fee in order to obtain a license to carry a handgun. Now, anyone who is older than 21 and isn&#39;t already prohibited from owning guns by state or federal law will be able to carry a firearm in public. 
There are some carveouts to the 
permitless carry bill
, as employers can prohibit employees from carrying handguns at work and private businesses can ban customers from carrying weapons on their property. 
And while there will no longer be required training to carry handguns, the Texas Department of Public Safety will provide a free gun safety course online. 
Texas joins about 20 other states that have some form of permitless carry law on the books. Texans are already allowed to carry rifles in public without a permit. 

      In this Jan. 26, 2015 file photo, a supporter of open carry gun laws, wears a pistol as he prepares for a rally in support of open carry gun laws at the Capitol, in Austin, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay, File)
      
BIDEN TO TARGET &#39;GHOST GUNS,&#39; STABILIZING BRACES IN NEW GUN CONTROL ACTIONS
Permitless carry is a win for conservative lawmakers and gun rights activists who helped usher the bill into law. 
&#34;This is a simple bill about the advancement of self-defense. Law-abiding citizens can avail themselves of their Second Amendment right to self-defend by carrying a sidearm in public spaces,&#34; Republican state 
Sen. Charles Schwertner
, a sponsor of the bill, said Tuesday. &#34;I believe it will improve safety both for the individual and society at large.&#34;
Meanwhile, gun control activists and Democratic lawmakers decried the legislation, arguing that it will lead to more violence. 
Following a 
shooting in Austin
 that left a tourist from New York dead and 13 others injured in the early hours of Saturday morning, Democratic state Rep. Vikki Goodwin wrote a letter to Abbott urging him to veto the bill. 
&#34;We need you, as our governor, to send the message that we are addressing mass gun violence in Texas,&#34; Goodwin wrote in the letter to Abbott on Monday. &#34;That message is not sent by undoing our system of licensing and the requirement that those who carry a gun obtain training in relevant laws and safety procedures.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
More than half of Texans, 59%, said they oppose permitless carry, according to an April 
University of Texas/Texas Tribune survey
. Support is split along ideological lines, with 56% of Republicans supporting permitless carry and only 10% of Democrats supporting it. 
Abbott will hold a bill signing ceremony at the Alamo in San Antonio on Thursday alongside other high-profile Texas Republicans, according to the 
Austin-American Statesman
. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
