
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Things keep getting worse for Tracy Stone-Manning, 
President Biden&#39;s
 nominee to lead the 
Bureau of Land Management
. 
If confirmed, Stone-Manning would run an agency tasked with managing 245 million acres of public land and 700 million acres of subsurface mineral estate, according to the BLM. 
But her ties to a 1989 tree-spiking plot have led to intense Republican opposition.
She 
testified
, in exchange for immunity, that she retyped and sent an anonymous letter to the U.S. Forest Service on behalf of John P. Blount, her former roommate and friend. The letter told the Forest Service that 500 pounds of &#34;spikes measuring 8 to 10 inches in length&#34; had been jammed into the trees of an Idaho forest.
Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and 
every Republican
 on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee have urged Biden to 
withdraw her nomination
. 
The nominee&#39;s written answers to senators have raised questions about her truthfulness. 
BIDEN NOMINEE FOR LAND AGENCY TOUTED HUSBAND&#39;S SUGGESTION TO LET HOUSES CAUGHT IN FOREST FIRES ‘BURN’
 
In her initial round of written answers, she denied ever being the target of a criminal investigation – but 
her own past statements
, as well as the 
lead investigator
 on the case, directly contradict that assertion. 
&#34;She told the committee she had never been the subject of an investigation and yet complained about being investigated in the press,&#34; Wyoming Sen. John Barrasso, the top Republican on the committee, previously told Fox News. 
In her written responses to follow-up questions from senators, which Fox News has reviewed, Stone-Manning said she had no &#34;personal knowledge&#34; of any tree-spiking plot in her lifetime. 
But one of the two men convicted in the 1989 tree-spiking plot 
told
 E&amp;E News that Stone-Manning did, in fact, have foreknowledge of the plot. The other man convicted in the plot, however, said she did not know in advance about the plot.
In 1989, a few months before the tree spiking, Stone-Manning promoted an environmental festival that included a &#34;tree-spiking contest,&#34; according to 
archives
 of the Montana Kaiman reviewed by Fox News. That revelation has not been previously reported. 
Tree spiking is a dangerous and violent 
eco-terrorism
 tactic where metal rods are inserted into trees to prevent them from being cut down. The metal rods damage saws that, in turn, have severely injured people, such as a mill worker whose jaw was 
split in two
 from an exploding saw.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Stone-Manning&#39;s views on population control have also raised eyebrows. She argued in her graduate thesis that Americans need to 
engage in population control
 to protect the environment. 
So far, the White House has stood by its embattled nominee.
Fox News&#39; Houston Keene contributed reporting 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
