
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
The Big Bend sector is seeing a sudden uptick in illegal border activity. They only have around 600 agents to cover the entire area, so to help combat the issue they&#39;re using new technologies to give them the upper hand.
Homeland Security
 Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas on Friday was at the southern border, touting how the Biden administration has emptied 
Border Patrol facilities
 -- but warning that officials are seeing hundreds of unaccompanied children cross each day.
Mayorkas toured the facility in Donna, Texas, which had been packed with more than 4,000 migrants early on in the crisis -- with migrants seen crammed into small pods.
Since then, the administration has shifted many of the children in those centers into the custody of Health and Human Services, where the number of migrants in care has ballooned from 12,000 to more than 22,000 in just a few months.
KAMALA HARRIS CALLS FOR &#39;IMMEDIATE RELIEF&#39; FOR NORTHERN TRIANGLE IN VIRTUAL MEETING WITH MEXICAN PRESIDENT
But the administration 
has marked it as a win
, saying that children are better off being cared for by HHS than by Border Patrol agents. The administration earlier this week released pictures of empty areas, contrasting them with those from March.
Mayorkas told reporters that the agency has made &#34;dramatic progress&#34; but stressed that &#34;the challenge remains&#34; and said that it intended to keep its current capacity to cope with future influxes.
&#34;We&#39;re down to about 1,830 people per day right now,&#34; he said, referring to encounters at the border. Unfortunately, we&#39;re still seeing a fairly high population of migrant children are coming across -- 270 a day right now, the last 21 days,&#34; he said.
There were more than 172,000 migrant encounters at the border in March, including a record number of children, and similar numbers are expected for April. It overwhelmed facilities and left Border Patrol releasing migrants into the interior without notices to appear in court.
DHS RELEASES IMAGES OF EMPTY BORDER PATROL FACILITY AS CHILD MIGRANTS MOVE TO HHS SHELTERS 
The Biden administration has refused to call the surge at the border a crisis, calling it instead a &#34;challenge&#34; and blaming it on a mix of the Trump administration’s lack of preparedness and &#34;root causes&#34; in Central America like poverty, violence and climate.
Critics have blamed the Biden administration’s refusal to apply Title 42 health protections -- which allow migrants to be quickly removed -- to children and some migrant families, while also blaming its rolling back of Trump-era policies like border wall construction and the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP).
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Mayorkas has faced pressure from activists who have called for him to end Title 42 completely. He said that the agency is making exceptions for some vulnerable people on Title 42 -- but indicated that the program would be in place until the pandemic was over.
Meanwhile, 
Vice President Kamala Harris
 on Friday met virtually with the Mexican president and called for &#34;immediate relief&#34; for Northern Triangle countries as part of an effort to resolve those root causes.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
