
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Former 
Wisconsin
 Gov. Scott Walker is set to speak at the 2021 
Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC)
 on Friday morning.
In a Thursday 
tweet
, the once GOP presidential candidate teased that he would be talking about free speech. 
&#34;The left is trying to intimidate us, recall us, and cancel us,&#34; he wrote. &#34;We have to fight back!&#34;
Who is Scott Walker?
Walker was born in 
Colorado Springs, Colo.
, in November of 1967 to Patricia and Llewellyn Walker. Patricia was a bookkeeper and Llewellyn was a 
Baptist minister
.
In 1970, the Walker family moved to 
Plainfield, Iowa
, before the 
family
 packed up again and headed to Delavan, Wis.
There, Walker became an Eagle Scout and Patricia was a den mother -- building upon a legacy of service that he would continue throughout the course of his 
career
 in 
politics
.
After being selected to attend the American Legion’s Badger Boys State Program in Ripon, Walker was also picked as one of two representatives to Boys Nation in 
Washington, D.C.
CPAC SCHEDULE: WHO IS SPEAKING AT THE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL ACTION CONFERENCE IN FLORIDA
In 
a 2010 interview
 with the American Legion, Walker said the trip to the nation&#39;s capital and the Vietnam Memorial &#34;solidified&#34; his interest in pursuing public service.
Walker was also an active member of the Delavan-Darien High School 
track team
, winning numerous 
conference championships
The 1,600-meter relay team member graduated from the school in 1986 and began studying at 
Marquette University
 in Milwaukee.
There he was elected to the student Senate and was an active College 
Republican
. He studied political science, 
economics
 and philosophy, and would run for both Inter-Residence Hall Council president and student government president between 1987 and 1988, 
according to Politifact
.

      Feb. 11, 2015: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker delivers a speech at Chatham House in central London. (AP Photo/Lefteris Pitarakis)
      
After a tough race against 
liberal
 
Chicagoan
 John Quigley and some scandal surrounding the confiscation of the Marquette Tribune after it endorsed his opponent, Walker lost again in 1988 and disappeared from the student government scene.
He dropped out of the university in 1990 -- just 34 credits short of graduation -- and took jobs with both the American Red Cross and 
IBM
.
Marquette said Walker had been in &#34;good standing&#34; when he withdrew. 
But Walker was just starting in politics. 
In 1990, at age 22, Walker ran for the 
state Assembly
 and lost to Democrat Gwen Moore. Three years later, Walker 
married
 his wife, Tonette Tarantino, and won election to the state Assembly in Wauwatosa.
In the early aughts, Walker saw more success: winning a special election for Milwaukee County executive in 2002 and again in 2008; being elected to his first four-year term as county executive in 2004 and announcing his run for 
governor
 in June of 2005.
Walker dropped out of the gubernatorial race in 2006 but announced three years later that he would run in 2010.
In 2010, Walker bested Milwaukee&#39;s Democratic Mayor Tom Barrett to win the seat on his 43rd birthday and he was sworn in on Jan. 3, 2011. He was the first governor in more than 64 years not to hold a 
college degree
.
Walker, who had previously worked on 
crime reduction
 and decreasing welfare programs, ran on a promise of cutting spending, reducing benefits and salaries for public sector union employees, and reversing 
taxes
.
&#34;On his first day in office, Walker called the state legislature into a special session on job creation,&#34; Walker&#39;s 
bio on the National Governors Association
 reads, also highlighting proposed 
legislation
 calling for the transformation of the Department of Commerce.
CPAC HEAVY HITTERS TO HIGHLIGHT CONSTITUTIONAL FREEDOMS, ALLEGE &#39;LEFT HATES THE BILL OF RIGHTS&#39;
In February of 2011, Walker unveiled legislation known as 
Act 10
 that effectively ended collective bargaining for public workers and 
thousands of people
 gathered at the state Capitol. Act 10 was signed into law in March and in May Walker 
signed another bill
 requiring photo ID to 
vote
.
Almost a year later, a petition was filed on Jan. 17, 2012, to 
recall Walker
 from office. 
However, in a Jun. 5 election, 
Walker defeated Barrett
 for a second time and became the first governor in U.S. history to defeat a recall, 
according to The Associated Press
.
In November of 2014 -- following the 2013 publication of his book &#34;Unintimidated,&#34; the 
freezing of tuition
 at the University of Wisconsin, and the Wisconsin Supreme Court&#39;s decision to uphold the constitutionality of Act 10 -- Walker bested Democrat Mary Burke to win reelection to a four-year term. He was sworn in on Jan. 5, 2015.

      Nov. 14, 2013: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker speaks at the state Capitol in Madison, Wis.
      
(AP)
In July of that year, the father of two and 45th governor of the Badger State would 
officially launch his bid for president
 in the 
2016 race
. 
But, just a couple of months into his campaign, 
Walker withdrew
, endorsing 
Sen. Ted Cruz
, R-Texas, instead of then-nominee 
Donald Trump
. 
In a final bid for reelection, Walker 
was beaten by Democrat Tony Evers
 in November of 2018. In 2019, he left office and announced he would join a speakers&#39; bureau, traveling the country and advocating for conservative issues. 
On his website
 describing The Walker Group, the former governor wrote that he would help turn the country around &#34;state by state.&#34;
&#34;Traveling this exceptional country reminds me that our greatest asset is the hard-working people of America,&#34; he said. &#34;If we can get government off of the backs of our citizens and unleash the power their hard work and determination, there are no limits to how great these United States of America will be in the future.I invite you to join us in this noble cause.&#34;
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
In 2019, Young America&#39;s Foundation 
announced
 that Walker would become their president in Feb. 2021.
In a bio
 on its website, the student group notes Walker also serves as the chairman of the board of trustees for the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars within the Smithsonian Institute, a senior adviser to the National Taxpayers Union, serves on the board of Students for Life Action, is chairman of the Institute for Reforming Government, is finance chairman for the National Republican Redistricting Trust, and is national honorary chairman of the Center for State-led National Debt Solutions.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
