
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The 
White House
 will welcome 
Japanese
 Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga in April as the first foreign leader to meet with President Biden, officials announced Friday.
The visit signals strengthening ties between the U.S. and Japan as the Biden administration seeks to distance itself from U.S. reliance on China.
&#34;This will be our first in-person visit from a foreign leader in the Biden-Harris administration, reflecting the importance we place on our bilateral relationship with Japan and our friendship and partnership with the Japanese people,&#34; White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters Friday.
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION ON SEMICONDUCTOR CHIP SHORTAGE, PROMISES HELP
Biden and Suga are expected to discuss ramping up a new trade alliance to bolster semiconductor production, according to  
Nikkei Asia
, a financial publication based in Japan. The importance of possible arrangement comes in the wake of a worldwide chip shortage currently wreaking havoc on automobile and consumer electronic manufacturers. 
The new supply chain would ensure U.S. and Japanese independence from vulnerable regions like Taiwan and unreliable partnerships with China -- whose trade war with the U.S. coupled with the coronavirus pandemic has led to the crippling chip shortages.
GM EXTENDS 3 PLANT SHUTDOWNS AND ADDS FOURTH DUE TO ONGOING SEMICONDUCTOR CHIP SHORTAGE
Psaki said the White House would be reviewing &#34;immediate actions we can take&#34; including &#34;improving the physical production of those items in the U.S.&#34;
The U.S. and Japan are expected to establish a joint research commission to establish how to divide up tasks in the newly formed trade alliance, as well as to mitigate risks in the supply chain, reported the Japanese financial outlet.
The U.S.’s share of semiconductor production has fallen in the global market from 37% in 1990 to just 12% in 2020, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
China’s semiconductor production is 
reportedly
 expected to increase from 12% in 2020 to 24% by 2030.
Fox News could not immediately reach the White House for comment on the Japan-U.S. semiconductor alliance.
Suzanne O&#39;Halloran contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
