
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Texas
 Democrats sued Gov. 
Greg Abbott
 after he vetoed funds to pay them when they walked out of a vote on election security legislation, denying Republicans the quorum to pass the bill. 
Abbott said those who &#34;quit their job early&#34; should not be paid. 
Texas Democrats walked off the floor just before midnight on May 31 to deny quorum needed to vote on Senate Bill 7, which would impose a slew of election changes, in regular session. The dramatic move landed them an invitation to the White House from Vice President Kamala Harris. 
Abbott has called lawmakers back for a special session set to begin July 8 to try again at passing the bill. 
&#34;Texans don’t run from a legislative fight, and they don’t walk away from unfinished business,&#34; Abbott said in a statement when he vetoed the portion of the state budget that funds the legislative branch last week. &#34;Funding should not be provided for those who quit their job early, leaving their state with unfinished business and exposing taxpayers to higher costs for an additional legislative session. I therefore object to and disapprove of these appropriations.&#34;
ABBOTT VETOES FUNDING FOR STATE LEGISLATURE AMID FLAP OVER ELECTION BILL 
Democrats took their case straight to the Texas Supreme Court and called the veto an unconstitutional power grab. It’s not yet clear when the court will take up the lawsuit. 
The veto of $400 million in funding also denied pay to Republican legislators, as well as support staff around the Capitol. 
&#34;Governor Abbott’s veto is an attempt to coerce, and thereby direct, how the Legislature discharges its functions — far exceeding the usual mechanism of the veto as a check on legislative excess,&#34; the Democrats’ petition says, according to 
Texas Tribune. 
State Rep. Chris Turner, D, said he was more concerned about supporting staff’s paychecks, as lawmakers only make about $600 per month in Texas plus $221 every day the Legislature is in session for both regular and special sessions.
Abbott’s veto is for the two-year state budget that begins Sept. 1. The issue could be resolved next month before the budget takes effect when lawmakers return for special session. 
TEXAS HOUSE DEMS BLOCK VOTING BILL 
Abbott spokeswoman Renae Eze said Democrats’ claims about the veto were misleading. 
This is not the first time, and undoubtedly will not be the last time, that a governor vetoes funding for government positions and salaries,&#34; she said.
&#34;The Constitution protects the legislative branch, and as the Democrats well know, their positions, their powers, and their salaries are protected by the Constitution,&#34; Eze said. &#34;They can continue to legislate despite the veto.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
If enacted, the bill would expand the authority of partisan poll watchers, enact bans on 24-hour and drive-thru voting, and increase penalties for election workers who violate protocols.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
