
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
New York
 State Assemblyman Ron Kim – who said Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 threatened to ruin his career for speaking out against his mishandling of the nursing home crisis during the 
coronavirus
 pandemic – is now calling for Cuomo to face impeachment.
&#34;Cuomo abused his powers to hide life and death information from the Department of Justice that prevented lawmakers from legislating – like fully repealing corporate immunity for nursing homes. That is an impeachable offense,&#34; Kim wrote on 
Twitter
 on Monday.
&#34;The only way to protect the integrity of the co-equal branch of the state government, AKA the &#39;People&#39;s House,&#39; is to start impeachment,&#34; he wrote in another 
tweet
.
CUOMO AIDE SAID TOP INFECTIOUS DISEASE DOCTOR SPOKE TO GOVERNOR &#39;REGULARLY&#39; BUT DOC DENIES IT
The New York State Assembly can vote to impeach a governor by a simple majority, sending the case to the State Senate for trial. Unlike the U.S. Constitution, New York&#39;s state Constitution does not include specific guardrails to define impeachable conduct, according to 
PIX11
.
Kim, a Democrat who is also the chair of the state&#39;s Standing Committee on Aging, previously accused Cuomo of &#34;abusing his power&#34; by trying to 
pressure
 lawmakers into backing admissions by his top aide that the administration purposely withheld data on nursing home deaths from Justice Department investigators.

      In this image taken from video, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo speaks during a news conference Friday, Feb. 19, 2021, in Albany, N.Y. (Office of the Governor of New York via AP)
      
((Office of the Governor of New York via AP))
Melissa DeRosa, secretary to the governor, made the stunning revelation during a Zoom call with state legislators earlier this month.
FORMER DOJ OFFICIAL: CUOMO SHOULD BE WORRIED ABOUT FEDERAL PROBE INTO COVID-19 NURSING HOME DEATHS
Kim was one of more than a dozen Democratic lawmakers in New York pushing for Cuomo to be stripped of the executive powers that were granted to him throughout the pandemic.
Cuomo made a public appearance at a mass vaccination site at Medgar Evers College in New York City on Monday morning. He was joined by a handful of New York State Assembly members but did not address the nursing home deaths or take questions. Cuomo blamed the Trump administration for a lack of coronavirus vaccines and accused the former administration of creating mistrust around the vaccine in the Black community.
Despite Cuomo&#39;s efforts to chalk up the drama-filled weeks to partisan politics, as questions swirling around his handling of the pandemic continue, the administration was forced to admit recently that nursing home deaths had topped 15,000 – nearly 10,000 more than was originally reported by the state at the end of January
New York City Mayor 
Bill de Blasio
, who has long had a tense relationship with Cuomo, called for a full investigation into coronavirus nursing home deaths on Monday.
&#34;I have not spoken to [Cuomo]. No, I do not accept his explanation,&#34; de Blasio said during a press conference. &#34;There needs to be a full investigation ... we need to get the whole truth and make sure nothing like this ever happens ever again.&#34;
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Fox News&#39; Vandana Rambaran contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
