
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
&#39;Media Buzz&#39; host Howard Kurtz has reaction on &#39;Special Report&#39; 
Rep. 
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez,
 D-N.Y., has been ranked the most 
partisan
 Democrat of the 
House
 of Representatives, according to a new study.
The Squad member ranked No. 427 out of 437 lawmakers analyzed, according to the 
Bipartisan Index
 of the 116th Congress (2019-2020) from The Lugar Center in collaboration with Georgetown University.
Other members of the group of progressive congresswomen also ranked low: Democratic Reps. Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts ranked at No. 426, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota ranked at No. 424 and Rashida Tlaib ranked at No. 414, the study found.
AOC COMPARES TREATMENT OF PALESTINIANS TO CONDITIONS AT US BORDER
Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., who helped lead impeachment efforts against former President Donald Trump, ranked at No. 423.
Republican Reps. Gary Palmer of Alabama, Rick Allen of Georgia, Jim Jordan of Ohio, Steve Scalise of Louisiana, Mike Johnson of Louisiana, Mo Brooks of Alabama, Larry Bucshon of Indiana, John Rose of Tennessee, Michael Cloud of Texas and Tom McClintock of California all ranked in the bottom 10 overall. 

      Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) pauses while speaking as Reps. Ilhan Omar (D-MN) and  Ayanna Pressley (D-MA) listen during a news conference at the U.S. Capitol on July 15, 2019 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Alex Wroblewski/Getty Images)
      
The rankings are nonpartisan and are based on how often members of Congress work across the political aisle.
Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick, R-Penn., ranked No. 1 overall; John Katko, R-N.Y., ranked at No. 2 and Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., ranked at No. 3, according to the study.
PELOSI CONDEMNS MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE&#39;S ‘VERBAL ASSAULT’ ON AOC, SUGGESTS ETHICS VIOLATION
&#34;I’m honored to once again be recognized by the Lugar Center for my work across parties lines,&#34; Katko said in a May 4 statement. &#34;Since coming to Congress, I’ve successfully worked in a bipartisan manner to advance legislation to combat the opioid epidemic, secure our nation, expand access to mental healthcare, support our pandemic response, and address a host of other issues of local importance.&#34;
He added that he intends &#34;to continue taking a bipartisan approach to aid our recovery and make smart investments in our region.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Dan Diller, policy director of the Lugar Center, noted that &#34;Katko has consistently ranked near the top of the Bipartisan Index in the House&#34; in a May 4 statement.
&#34;His 2nd place finish out of 437 House members during the 116th Congress (2019-2020) places him among the elite bipartisan legislators in Congress,&#34; Diller said.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
