
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
The Supreme Court is slated to decide on cases related to several hot-button issues during the term that begins Monday, including abortion, gun rights, and school vouchers.
On Dec. 1, justices will hear arguments in 
Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization
, which challenges a Mississippi law that bans most abortions when &#34;the probable gestational age of the unborn human&#34; is more than 15 weeks. Detractors claim a ruling in favor of the law could undermine or even lead to the 
overturning
 of Roe v. Wade.
Carrie C. Severino
, the president of the Judicial Crisis Network, told 
The New York Times
, &#34;There are going to be people losing their minds over this case, whichever direction it goes.&#34;
Another contentious case will be heard Nov. 3, when the court will decide in 
New York State Rifle &amp; Pistol Association v. Bruen
 regarding whether the state of 
New York
 can order citizens who want a concealed carry license to demonstrate a good reason for having one.
The ruling would also impact concealed carry restrictions in California, Delaware, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Rhode Island.
In 
Carson v. Makin
, scheduled to be heard before the court on Dec. 8, justices will decide if Maine can exclude religious schools from a state tuition program.
The conservative-majority high court will also decide on challenges to President Biden&#39;s vaccine mandate, as well as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) for immigrants, and a case regarding the death penalty sentence of Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Justice Samuel Alito on Thursday 
defended the court
 by pushing back against critics who characterize the court &#34;as having been captured by a dangerous cabal that resorts to sneaky and improper methods to get its ways.&#34;
&#34;This portrayal feeds unprecedented efforts to intimidate the court and to damage it as an independent institution,&#34; he said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
