
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Vice President 
Kamala Harris’
 niece defended her support for Indian farmers locked in a standoff with the government after pro-Parliament supporters burned photos of her on the streets of 
New Delhi
 on Thursday.
&#34;I spoke out in support of human rights for Indian farmers, and look at the response,&#34; Meena Harris wrote on Twitter after members of the pro-government United Hindu Front set fire to photos of her as well as celebrity activists.
RIHANNA DRAWS ATTENTION TO INDIA’S MONTHS-LONG FARMERS PROTEST AMID REPORT OF INTERNET BLACKOUT
Renowned figures like singer Rihanna and environmental rights activist Greta Thunberg were joined on Twitter by the vice president’s niece, a lawyer and activist, to condemn recent actions by the Indian government earlier this week.
Internet shutdowns were imposed in 14 of the 22 districts in Haryana state near New Delhi after months-long protests by farmers frustrated over controversial agricultural policies turned violent last week, 
CNN
 first reported.
Most of the farmers involved in the protests are from the country’s largest agricultural production states of Punjab and Haryana and are demanding Parliament repeal laws passed in September that benefit corporations over smaller farms.
Meena Harris first became embroiled in the protest when she took to Twitter on Monday and said, &#34;the most populous democracy is under assault.&#34;
&#34;We ALL should be outraged by India’s internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters,&#34; she added, drawing a parallel to the recent U.S. Capitol riot.
But India’s foreign ministry objected to the international attention and said, &#34;Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken,&#34; 
Reuters
 reported Wednesday.
Thousands of protesters have clashed with Indian police forces, who have used batons and tear gas to try and break up the clashes.
Fox News could not reach the White House for comment on the aggressive action taken toward the vice president’s niece.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
But Meena Harris reiterated her stance, adding on Twitter on Thursday: &#34;I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that.&#34;
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
