
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Former Secretary of State George Shultz, an influential foreign policy figure during President Ronald Reagan’s administration, died at age 100.
Former Secretary of State George Shultz, an influential foreign policy figure during 
President Ronald Reagan’s
 administration, 
died Saturday
, on Reagan&#39;s birthday, at age 100 at his home in Stanford, 
California
, the 
Hoover Institution said
 Sunday.
Shultz, a Hoover Institution distinguished fellow, held three major Cabinet posts in Republican administrations during his long career of public service. Before spending more than six years as Reagan’s secretary of state, he served as labor secretary, treasury secretary and director of the Office of Management and Budget under President Richard Nixon. His administration experience also included a stint as a senior staff economist with President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s Council of Economic Advisers.
As the nation’s chief diplomat in the 1980s, Shultz forged a course for peace in the 
Middle East
 and tried to enhance Cold War relations with the 
Soviet Union. 

      In this July 13, 1982, file photo Secretary of State designate George Shultz, right, speaks with members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee prior to the start of the afternoon session of the panel on Capitol Hill in Washington. From left. Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del.; Sen. Charles Percy, R-Ill., chairman of the panel and Sen. Edward Zorinsky, D-Neb.
      
(AP Photo/Ira Schwarz, File)
Shultz negotiated the first-ever treaty to decrease the size of the Soviet Union’s ground-based 
nuclear
 arsenals. The 1987 accord was a historic attempt to begin to reverse the nuclear arms race.
In 1989, Shultz was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor. 
He had been the oldest surviving former Cabinet member of any administration.
The war veteran was born Dec. 13, 1920 in 
New York City
 and raised in 
New Jersey. 
He studied economics and public and international affairs at Princeton University and graduated in 1942. 
He then joined the Marine Corps and rose to the rank of captain as an artillery officer during 
World War II
.
In 1949, he earned a Ph.D. in economics at MIT.  He taught at MIT and at the University of Chicago, where he was dean of the business school.
Shultz was most recently a professor emeritus at Stanford’s Graduate School of Business.
He was married to Helena &#34;Obie&#34; O’Brien, an 
Army
 nurse he met during World War II, and they had five children together. Two years after her death, in 1997, he married Charlotte Maillard, San Francisco’s protocol chief.
Shultz is survived by Maillard, his five children, 11 grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
A cause of death was not provided by the Hoover Institution. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
