
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden
 plans to remove all American troops from 
Afghanistan
 by September 11, a senior 
defense
 official confirmed to Fox News. 
If that happens, that would mean that all American forces will be out of the country by the 20th anniversary of the Al Qaeda attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The president will make official remarks on the plans on Wednesday. 
The Trump administration had aimed to have all American forces out of Afghanistan, where the Taliban retains significant power, by May 1, if certain conditions in its negotiations with the Taliban were met. But with just more than two weeks until that deadline, it is being pushed back again. 
As the 10-year anniversary of the killing of Osama bin Laden approaches on May 1st, senior U.S. military leaders have long warned a similar raid would be much more difficult without U.S. military troops based in Afghanistan. The Navy SEAL assault force launched from Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan not far from the border with Pakistan
NAVY CAPTURES FOOTAGE OF PYRAMID-SHAPED UFOS, ORBS
The United States has been aiming to draw down its military presence in the Middle East for years, and it is unclear if there are conditions that could delay the drawdown of American forces from Afghanistan before the Biden administration&#39;s target date. 
The news was
 first reported
 by the Washington Post.
Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif., applauded Biden for withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan, while Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said doing so is premature. 
&#34;I applaud President Biden for achieving an impossibility here in Washington: ending a forever war,&#34; Khanna said, even as Biden was technically extending the deadline to withdraw troops. &#34;It is an act of extraordinary political courage and vision. After 20 years, thousands of lives lost, and trillions of dollars spent, we are finally bringing home our troops from Afghanistan.&#34;
&#34;Precipitously withdrawing U.S. forces from Afghanistan is a grave mistake. It is a retreat in the face of an enemy that has not yet been vanquished, an abdication of American leadership,&#34; McConnell said. 
A person familiar with the deliberations told the Washington Post that if the U.S. pushed back its May 1 withdrawal deadline without a clear exit plan by another time &#34;we will be back at war with the Taliban, and that was not something President Biden believed was in the national interest ... We&#39;re going to zero troops by September.&#34;
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden had previously hinted that the U.S. was considering delaying the full withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan. 
&#34;It’s going to be hard to meet the May 1 deadline,&#34; Biden said in late March. &#34;Just in terms of tactical reasons, it’s hard to get those troops out.&#34;
&#34;And if we leave, we’re going to do so in a safe and orderly way,&#34; he added. 
Fox News&#39; Jason Donner and The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
