
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
EXCLUSIVE 
– As 
Republicans
 work toward winning back the 
House of Representatives
 majority in the 
2022 midterm elections
, the party&#39;s reelection committee is off to a strong 
fundraising
 start.
The National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) on Thursday reported that it brought in $33.7 million in fundraising in the January-March first quarter (Q1) of this year.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS TO TARGET 47 &#39;VULNERABLE&#39; DEMOCRATS AS THEY TRY TO WIN BACK MAJORITY IN 2022 MIDTERMS
The figures, shared first with Fox News, include a large $19.1 million haul in March alone, which the NRCC says beats its previous off-election year record by $3.6 million.
The committee highlighted that it had $29.7 million cash on hand as of the end of last month, which it says is a 57% increase over the amount of money the NRCC had in the bank at the same point in the last election cycle.
The committee also noted that it has no debt and that its average grassroots donation was $32.70. Its record haul was aided by $5.3 million from House Minority Leader 
Kevin McCarthy
 of California and $3.5 million from House Minority Whip 
Steve Scalise
 of Louisiana.
HOUSE GOP REELECTION CHAIR SAYS BIDEN&#39;S EXECUTIVE ORDERS MAKING JOB EASIER FOR REPUBLICANS
Targeting House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
, NRCC spokesman Michael McAdams told Fox News that &#34;Republican voters are motivated to fire Nancy Pelosi, stop Democrats’ socialist agenda and take back the House.&#34;
The NRCC&#39;s counterpart, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), has yet to report its 2021 first-quarter fundraising figures. The DCCC raised a combined $18.5 million in January and February. The committee reported $25.9 million cash on hand as of the end of February but also had $11 million in debt to pay off.
The GOP controlled the House for eight years before losing the majority in the chamber in the 2018 midterms amid a wave by House Democrats. But Republicans defied expectations and took a big bite out of the Democrats’ majority in last November’s elections and only need to flip five seats in 2022 to regain control of the chamber.
And they have history on their side: In modern times, the party that controls the White House traditionally loses roughly 25 House seats in midterm elections.
In the past four decades, only Presidents Bill Clinton in 1998 and George W. Bush in 2002 saw their parties gain House seats in midterm elections.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The NRCC&#39;s haul may also ease concerns that GOP incumbents in Congress and their reelection committees would suffer a fundraising hit. This comes after a slew of corporate political action committees halted donations to Republican lawmakers who on Jan. 6 challenged President Biden&#39;s 2020 Electoral College defeat of former President Trump, immediately after right-wing extremists and other Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol in hopes of disrupting congressional certification of Biden’s victory.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
