
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Author and journalist discusses the potential of ivermectin to treat COVID-19 on &#39;Fox News Primetime&#39;
There is clear concern among voters about big technology companies and big government.  
When it comes to 
Big Tech
, one issue is bias. The latest 
Fox News national survey
 finds only 26 percent of voters trust 
social media companies
 to make fair decisions about the content posted on their platforms. Far more, 69 percent, don’t trust them to be fair.
While 
Democrats
 (37 percent) are twice as likely as 
Republicans
 (19 percent) to trust social media companies to make fair decisions about content, majorities of both distrust them (58 percent and 78 percent respectively).  
CLICK HERE TO READ THE FULL POLL RESULTS
Another issue is Big Tech’s size and reach. Roughly half of voters want to bust up some of the most high-profile tech companies: 53 percent favor breaking up Facebook, while 46 percent feel the same about 
Amazon
, 
Apple
, and 
Google
.
Regulators agree. The House Judiciary Committee approved legislation Thursday aimed at reducing the power of these tech giants. Plus, the D.C. Attorney General filed an antitrust lawsuit against Amazon in May and last December 48 attorneys general brought a lawsuit against Facebook that seeks to break up the company.  
The sentiment on breaking up Big Tech holds steady even among current account holders.  Half (51 percent) of those with a 
Facebook
 account think the social media company should be broken up, while almost half of Amazon (45 percent) and Google (44 percent) account holders, as well as Apple device owners (47 percent), favor the breakup of those companies.  
FOX NEWS POLL: 83% WORRY ABOUT INFLATION, MAJORITY SAYS BENEFITS HURTING ECONOMY
In general, Facebook continues to be the top tech company that concerns voters, as 63 percent say it has too much power.  It’s followed by Google at 55 percent, Apple at 52 percent, and Amazon at 51 percent.  Those numbers are all up since 2019.  
For comparison, 65 percent say 
the IRS
 is too powerful and 51 percent say the same about the FBI.  
Still, Uncle Sam tops them all: a 68 percent majority says the federal government has too much power.  It was 67 percent in 2019.  
That consistency masks major shifts that coincide with the change in political party control of the presidency. Currently, 82 percent of Republicans think the government is too powerful, up 13 points from 69 percent two years ago.  Fifty-four percent of Democrats agree, down 9 points from 63 percent in 2019.  That means what was a 6-point gap between Republicans and Democrats is now 28 points.  
FOX NEWS POLL: VOTERS SUPPORT ISRAEL, FAVOR SENDING AID AND WEAPONS
There’s a similar, though smaller, partisan gap between Republicans and Democrats when it comes to the IRS being too powerful (18-point gap), the FBI (18 points), and Facebook (13 points). 
Compared to 2019, Republicans are 10 points more likely to think Facebook has too much power, while Democrats are one point less likely to hold that view. 
Conducted June 19-22, 2021 under the joint direction of Beacon Research (D) and Shaw &amp; Company (R), this Fox News Poll includes interviews with 1,001 randomly chosen registered voters nationwide who spoke with live interviewers on both landlines and cellphones.  The total sample has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.  
Fox News’ Victoria Balara contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
