
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
New Jersey
 jails are now banned from working with 
ICE
 to detain federal immigration suspects, under a bill signed Friday by 
Gov. Phil Murphy
.
The new law bars local and private jails from &#34;entering into, renewing, or extending&#34; detention agreements with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
It does not terminate current ICE contracts.
The practice of contracting with the federal agency to hold suspects awaiting deportation hearings can be highly lucrative for local governments, with some charging as much as as $120 a day per detainee, according to ICE’s 2018 budget.
New Jersey is the fifth state to limit or ban such contracts, following 
California,
 
Illinois
, 
Washington
 and 
Maryland
.
NEW JERSEY DEM GOVERNOR JETS OFF TO ITALY FOR  VACATION AS CORONAVIRUS SPIKE IN STATES
Prisons in Bergen and Hudson counties still have remaining contracts, and a privately owned jail in Elizabeth just recently extended its contract until 2023, according to 
NJ Advance Media.
The governor — a Democrat up for reelection in November — was under pressure from various lobbyist and activist groups to push through the legislation, including the New Jersey ACLU.
&#34;For far too long, New Jersey has enabled and profited from ICE’s cruel immigration detention system that tears apart families and communities,&#34; ACLU-NJ Policy Director Sarah Fajardo said in a statement Friday.
&#34;With the signing of this bill, New Jersey is taking a first step towards ending its complicity in the mass detention of noncitizens.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Murphy has just returned from his highly criticized trip to Italy and did not release a statement about the new bill as of Friday night.
State Senate Majority Leader and bill sponsor Loretta Weinberg told NJ Advance Media on Friday that &#34;county jails and other entities should be used to house people accused of real crimes, not to arbitrarily hold people who are trying to live their lives and contribute like anyone else.&#34;
&#34;Many of these individuals are immigrants who have lived in New Jersey for years, enriching our communities, and strengthening local economies,&#34; Weinberg said. &#34;This is a common-sense bill and a humane one.&#34;
Click 
here
 to read more on the 
New York Post.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
