
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Sen. Raphael Warnock
, arguably the most vulnerable 
Senate
 Democrat running for reelection in the 
2022 midterm elections,
 unveiled some eye-popping 
fundraising 
figures on Thursday.
Warnock’s campaign said that the senator has raised more than $5.7 million from more than 100,000 supporters since his election in Georgia’s twin Jan. 5 runoff contests, with roughly $5.6 million in his coffers.
WARNOCK EMAIL OVER NEW GEORGIA VOTING LAW SPARKS CONTROVERSY
The Democrats’ sweep in the Georgia runoffs – Warnock’s victory over appointed GOP Sen. Kelly Loeffler and Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff’s defeat of Republican incumbent Sen. David Perdue -- evened the balance of power in the chamber at 50/50 between the two parties. The Democrats took the majority two weeks later, when then-Sen. Kamala Harris was sworn in as vice president. Thanks to her tie breaking vote as president of the Senate, the Democrats grabbed a razor-thin majority.

      Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., talks to a reporter on Capitol Hill, Wednesday, Feb. 10, 2021. 
      
(AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
While Ossoff won a full six-year Senate term, Warnock is serving the final two years of retired GOP Sen. Johnny Isakson’s term.
Republicans, needing a net gain of just one seat to regain the Senate majority, see Warnock as one of the most vulnerable Democrats running for reelection next year.
Warnock’s massive fundraising haul, first reported by the
 Atlanta Journal Constitution,
 follows his fundraising prowess in 2020, when the first-time candidate and pastor of Atlanta’s famed Ebenezer Baptist Church brought in nearly $150 million during the special election and runoff election campaigns.
The Senate race in Georgia is likely to be one of the most competitive and expensive showdowns in the 2022 midterms. National Republicans have already launched ads targeting Warnock.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Two Republicans – military veterans Kelvin King and Latham Saddler – have already launched campaigns. 
Loeffler has left the door open to a rematch with Warnock, and former Rep. Doug Collins, who ran in last year’s special Senate election and came in third behind Warnock and Loeffler in the November contest, is also mulling a Republican challenge. 
Herschel Walker, the former star college and professional football player who has been encouraged by former President Trump to run, said in a Fox News interview on Sunday that he’s considering a bid.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
