
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Both the left and right want to politicize the courts.
The  
U.S. Supreme Court
 signaled a quick resolution to the latest challenge to Texas&#39; landmark 
abortion
 law Monday, hours after the 
Department of Justice
 under 
President Biden
 asked the court to block the law, which bans abortions once medical professionals can detect cardiac activity.
The court signaled that it will move quickly on the issue, asking Texas officials for a response to the DOJ request by midday on Thursday, 
Reuters reported
. The justices also fast-tracked their consideration of whether to immediately take up a separate challenge to the law, brought by abortion facilities in the state.\
In a 
41-page filing Monday
, Acting Solicitor General Brian Fletcher condemned 
Texas
, claiming that the state has &#34;successfully nullified [the Supreme] Court&#39;s decisions within its borders&#34; by circumventing Roe v. Wade and making &#34;abortion effectively unavailable in Texas after roughly six weeks of pregnancy.&#34;
Pro-life activists have celebrated that most abortion facilities ceased operation when the law took effect.
DISTRICT COURT JUDGE BLOCKS LANDMARK TEXAS ‘FETAL HEARTBEAT’ ABORTION LAW
Fletcher asked the Supreme Court for a preliminary injunction, blocking the law until the federal courts issue a final ruling on the merits. 

      FILE - In this Nov. 5, 2020, file photo the Supreme Court is seen in Washington. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)
      
The Texas law, 
signed by Republican Gov. Greg Abbott in May
, effectively prohibits abortion at around six weeks and before many women know they’re pregnant. Rather than having the state enforce the ban, the law creates a private right of action against individuals who commit or aid and abet an abortion that violates the law – but not against the woman who undergoes the procedure.
The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals had rejected requests for a stay when abortion providers sought to prevent the law from becoming operative until the resolution of a court dispute. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court, which allowed the law to go into effect. 
The Department of Justice then filed a motion to block the law, and U.S. District Judge Robert Pittman 
issued the injunction
 earlier this month. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Fifth Circuit reversed Pittman&#39;s injunction, however, so the DOJ is appealing the case to the Supreme Court.
The case will go to Justice Samuel Alito, who handles matters pertaining to the Fifth Circuit Court. 
Tyler O&#39;Neil is an editor at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at 
@Tyler2ONeil
. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email Tyler at tyler.oneil@fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
