
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News medical contributor Dr. Nicole Saphier discusses the impacts of the CDC’s new guidelines for vaccinated people, as well as the long-term effects of school closures.
Several 
House Republicans
 were donning new face masks at the Capitol this week to send a message that it&#39;s time to get kids physically back in the classroom.
Rep. 
Steve Scalise
&#39;s office made the new masks and distributed them to members at the GOP conference meeting Tuesday. The black masks read: &#34;OPEN SCHOOLS NOW! Follow the science, not the unions!&#34;

      Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., the House minority whip, dons a messaging mask following a GOP strategy session, at the Capitol in Washington, Tuesday, March 9, 2021. 
      
(AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
Scalise, R-La., and fellow Republicans have pointed to scientific studies that suggest opening schools is safe with certain 
coronavirus
 precautions and have blamed teachers unions for keeping certain districts closed for full in-person learning. 
SCALISE RIPS BIDEN SCHOOL-REOPENING GOAL: &#39;YOU&#39;RE AFRAID OF STANDING UP TO THE TEACHERS UNION&#39;
Republicans, led by freshman Rep. Ashely Hinson, R-Iowa, have also pressured Democrats to pass restrictions on the new coronavirus money to schools to condition full funding on being physically open. Those GOP efforts have failed so far. 

      Rep. Ashley Hinson, R-Iowa, and Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., the House minority whip, right arrive to talk to reporters, following a GOP strategy session, at the Capitol in Washington, Tuesday, March 9, 2021. 
      
(AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
&#34;Democrats claim they ‘follow the science,’ but they’re quick to ignore it when it’s no longer politically convenient for them,&#34; Scalise spokeswoman Lauren Fine told Fox News. &#34;Despite the fact the science is clear that schools can and should be reopened, Democrats have decided to sell our kids out to the teachers unions.&#34;
HOUSE BLOCKS IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION OF GOP SCHOOL REOPENING LEGISLATION
She said Republicans want to send a message with their mandated masks.
&#34;If House Democrats want to continue to insist for no scientific reason other than showmanship on members wearing masks while speaking into the House floor microphones several feet away from other people, Republicans are happy to use the opportunity to remind them and the American people of our message to open schools now, follow the science, not the unions,&#34; Fine said. 
Some teachers unions have 
argued
 that schools will not be prepared to reopen fully until all school staff members are vaccinated. Others have 
gone even further
, saying it still would not be safe to reopen then, claiming that schools need more funding for better ventilation systems before students and staff can safely return.
CDC DIRECTOR: SCHOOLS CAN OPEN WITHOUT TEACHER VACCINES &#39;EVEN IN AREAS OF THE HIGHEST COMMUNITY SPREAD&#39;
President Biden has said his goal is to reopen the majority of K-8 schools by his first 100 days, which is at the end of March.
Fox News&#39; Peter Aiken contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
