
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Criminal defense attorney Mark Eiglarsh reacts to the potential deal with federal prosecutors on &#39;The Story&#39;
A 
St. Louis
, 
Missouri
, woman has been indicted for setting fire to a 7-Eleven convenience store during a riot in response to the death of 
George Floyd
 last summer.
Nautica Turner, 26, appeared in federal court Wednesday facing the charge of conspiracy to commit arson related to a fire set at a St. Louis 7/11 on June 1, 2020, 
according to a press release from the Department of Justice
.
DEREK CHAUVIN DENIED REQUEST FOR PUBLIC DEFENDER IN APPEALS PROCESS BY MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT
&#34;The indictment charges that on June 1, 2020, Turner conspired with others to maliciously damage and destroy, by means of fire, the 7-Eleven building located at 201 North 17th Street, a building used in interstate commerce,&#34; the press release states. &#34;Among other things, the indictment alleges that the conspirators participated in the destruction and looting of the 7-Eleven building.  The indictment further alleges that Turner poured an ignitable liquid on the 7-Eleven building, ignited a box and threw the box in the building, and that Turner committed other acts.&#34;
Turner’s offense is punishable by up to five years in prison and a possible fine of up to $250,000.
DON LEMON DOWNPLAYS 2020 RIOT DAMAGE, DISMISSES COMPARISON TO JAN. 6: &#39;AN INSURANCE POLICY CAN REPLACE A SHOE&#39;
Insurance analysts have said that riots stemming from the death of George Floyd, who died while in the custody of Minneapolis police last summer, were the most destructive in American history, 
costing
 over $1 billion in damages. 
Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was 
convicted
 of unintentional second-degree murder in April and sentenced to 22.5 years in prison in June.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Chauvin has 
appealed
 that conviction and the Minnesota Supreme Court 
ruled 
this week that he will not be permitted to use a public defender for his new trial.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
