
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
New York governor now accused of trying to silence a critic following cover-up claims while Michigan’s nursing home deaths may have been undercounted
Gov. Gretchen Whitmer
 on Thursday vetoed Republican-sponsored legislation that would have exempted high school graduation ceremonies from 
COVID-19
 restrictions on 
Michigan 
crowd sizes, calling it &#34;half-baked and punchless.&#34;
The veto, which was expected, came two days after her administration’s order was loosened to end outdoor capacity limits and limit indoor gatherings to 50% occupancy.
&#34;This bill is a solution in search of a problem,&#34; the 
Democratic
 governor wrote to the 
GOP-led
 House. &#34;Rather than sending me half-baked and punchless legislation like HB 4728, I encourage the Legislature to join me in eradicating this pandemic and making transformational investments in our economy.&#34;
NEW DIGITAL AD HIGHLIGHTS WHITMER&#39;S ‘RULES FOR THEE, NOT FOR ME’ GOVERNING STYLE DURIING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
When the measure won final passage more than two weeks ago, 
Michigan
 was restricting crowds at many outdoor stadiums to 1,000. At most indoor arenas, the limit was 375.
The sponsor, Rep. Ann Bollin of Brighton Township, had said in early May that the bill would give schools flexibility to host commencements &#34;in a manner that suits their districts. ... It’s time to celebrate these young lives and give them the send-off they deserve.&#34;
Also Thursday, 
Whitmer 
vetoed a bill that would have prohibited a governor from issuing an emergency order extending response times for public-records requests or otherwise limiting a public body’s duties under the Freedom of Information Act. She did so for two months early in the pandemic.
The since-expired order, Whitmer said, was designed to protect government officials’ lives during the first surge. She said she will not sign bills that constrain the governor’s ability to protect people.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Rep. Steve Johnson, a Wayland 
Republican
 who sponsored the FOIA measure, said in March that governments already have 15 business days to respond to a request if it takes an extension. The bill passed with broad bipartisan support in the House and almost entirely along party lines in the Senate.
&#34;I would argue when you are in a time of emergency and government is making significant decisions, that is actually the time that you most need transparency to know what decisions are being made and why they are being made,&#34; Johnson said.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
