
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News contributor Newt Gingrich says a lot of people could die if the Taliban decides to pursue retribution. He also notes that, despite what Biden claimed, the U.S. may not save money by pulling out of Afghanistan
The 
Democrat-controlled
 House 
Armed Services
 Committee voted down a number of Republican amendments related to 
critical race theory
 while marking up the new defense bill overnight Wednesday, according to reports. 
Other Republican amendments related to 
China 
and 
Afghanistan
 were among the nearly 800 proposed for the National Defense Authorization Act, forcing the committee to stay in session until the predawn hours of Thursday. 
At least three amendments to the defense bill related to critical race theory were introduced by Republican Reps. Jim Banks, Mark Green, and Vicky Hartzler, according to Bloomberg News reporter Andrew Solender. 
VICKY HARTZLER SPEAKS OUT ON HER PUSH TO BAN CRITICAL RACE THEORY IN MILITARY SCHOOLS 
&#34;Today, I will be offering an amendment in the
 
House Armed Services Committee to ban racist Critical Race Theory teachings in our military,&#34; Banks tweeted before the vote. Green and Hartzler&#39;s amendments were similar. 
Many Republicans have been concerned the theory that teaches historical racism and misogyny are still present in modern-day U.S. institutions has begun to seep into the military. 
Some lawmakers have evidenced this by the Pentagon’s new focus on diversity and inclusion. 
Earlier Wednesday, The committee adopted a Republican amendment to increase 
defense spending
 by nearly $25 billion, making the overall budget $778 billion. 

      Chairman Adam Smith, D-Wash., arrives for the House Armed Services Committee markup hearing of the National Defense Authorization Act on Wednesday, Sept. 1, 2021. (Getty Images)
      
&#34;The bipartisan adoption of my amendment sends a clear signal: the President’s budget submission was wholly inadequate to keep pace with a rising China and a re-emerging Russia,&#34; Rep. Mike Rogers, the author of the 
amendment
, said in a statement. 
By early Thursday, the committee voted 57-2 to approve the bill, with Democratic Reps. Ro Khanna and Sara Jacobs as the only no votes, Solender reported. 
&#34;After twenty years of war in Afghanistan ... I can’t support another misguided effort to overflow the Pentagon’s budget beyond what our military leaders are even requesting,&#34; Jacobs wrote. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
After the vote, committee Chair Adam Smith, D-Wash., said in a statement he wanted to thank Rogers for his &#34;tireless work and commitment to bipartisanship &#34; in the drafting of the bill. 
&#34;Democracy is not always easy but having a willing counterpart in the legislative process is critical to ensuring our military has the essential resources they need to combat threats at home and abroad.&#34; 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
