
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News’ Greg Palkot speaks with some of the Afghan refugees being housed, fed and vetted in Germany following the U.S. withdrawal.
Pentagon
 spokesman John Kirby declined Friday to provide the names of the ISIS 
terrorists
 the 
military
 killed in airstrikes late last week and early this week, as the 
Biden
 administration worked to complete its withdrawal of American troops from 
Afghanistan.
 
&#34;I don&#39;t believe we&#39;ve refused to say who they are. We haven&#39;t given you any names but we absolutely had solid intelligence that this was ISIS individuals who were in the act of imminently carrying out a direct threat to the airport and our people and potentially to innocent lives outside the airport,&#34; Kirby said. 
The U.S. military carried out two airstrikes against ISIS-K. One was in Nangarhar Province last Friday and killed &#34;two high profile&#34; targets. Another strike hit a Kabul suicide bomber who was threatening the city&#39;s airport, where the U.S. military was evacuating civilians. 

      Pentagon spokesman John Kirby speaks during a media briefing at the Pentagon, Thursday, July 8, 2021, in Washington. Kirby Friday declined to name the ISIS terrorists killed by the American military in two recent airstrikes. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
      
Pushed further Friday to name the ISIS-K terrorists killed in the Nangarhar strike, Kirby declined but said he would check to see if that is possible. 
TALIBAN SPOKESPERSON WARNS US NOT TO INTERFERE WITH THEIR CULTURE: LIVE UPDATES
&#34;We know who they are. I think at the time we didn&#39;t release the names because we are in the middle of a very fluid threat environment. Let me see if that&#39;s information that can be provided now,&#34; Kirby said. 
The last American service member left Afghanistan on Monday ahead of President Biden&#39;s deadline to withdraw all American boots on the ground from Afghanistan. But the administration left behind as many as 200 Americans. And the 
State Department
 is saying that those people – trapped in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan – should not rely on the U.S. government to help them escape. 
REP. MEIJER RIPS BIDEN&#39;S ‘ONGOING DECEPTION’ ON AFGHANISTAN AFTER VISITING KABUL
Further, 13 American service members died in a separate ISIS-K attack last week. Multiple family members of the fallen Marines have lambasted Biden for the botched withdrawal that also left thousands of Afghan allies stranded under Taliban rule. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden, meanwhile, has maintained there would be no way for the U.S. to leave Afghanistan without throwing the country into chaos and said the military needed to be out of the country by Aug. 31 because the Taliban would begin to attack after that deadline. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
