
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
California congresswoman Katie Porter joins ‘America’s News HQ.’
California Democratic Rep. Katie Porter’s campaign does not offer health insurance coverage to its staffers, despite the congresswoman calling health care a &#34;human right,&#34; filings show.
Porter, a firebrand progressive politician who advocates for universal health care, has several salaried individuals on her campaign payroll, Federal Election Commission records show. Those employees, however, are not receiving any health insurance coverage directly from the campaign, 
according
 to a review of the committee&#39;s disbursements during the first quarter.
The congresswoman is a 
proponent
 of universal coverage and is a co-sponsor of a &#34;Medicare-for-all&#34; bill. She has 
said
 that &#34;health care is a human right&#34; and that she 
would
 stop at nothing to protect health care, improve it and expand it.

      Rep. Katie Porter speaks at a House Oversight Committee hearing on the coronavirus.
      
Jordan Wong, communications director for Porter’s campaign, says stipends are added to employee&#39;s paychecks. &#34;Your assumption that ‘campaign staffers [do] not receiv[e] health insurance coverage’ is not correct,&#34; Wong said. &#34;Our campaign employees continue to receive stipends for health insurance. They are deposited with their salaries, on top of the agreed-upon compensation for their work.&#34;
When asked if the stipends – which are not reported in filings – were for employees to purchase their own health insurance since it appears the campaign was not offering coverage, Wong added, &#34;All employees, even if they are on a parent&#39;s or spouse&#39;s insurance, receive the same health insurance stipend from the campaign. For all of our employees, this has been more than enough to cover the full cost of their premium (and then some) for a Covered CA plan of their choice.&#34;
Covered California is the Golden State’s health insurance marketplace established under ObamaCare.
This setup is identical in nature to one that had garnered attention for former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg during the 2020 presidential cycle. Buttigieg 
caught flak
 after NBC News 
reported
 that he was the only Democratic presidential contender who had yet to offer direct health coverage to campaign workers. His campaign, like Porter’s, had instead said they were paying stipends through salaries so its staffers could purchase ObamaCare. At the time, Buttigieg’s campaign had just launched, and he later 
offered
 health care coverage.
A review of FEC records further shows that other politicians who advocate for universal health care do, in fact, report campaign expenditures to health insurance companies. During the first quarter of the year, the campaign of Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., paid 
$14,000
 for health insurance, while the campaign of Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., reported 
thousands
 in such expenditures. Both campaigns dished out 
large sums
 in health care payments last year. The campaign of Rep. Rashida Tlaib, D-Mich., began offering health insurance in July of last year, 
records
 show.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Dozens of other Democratic politicians also report health insurance 
payments
 from their campaign’s coffers, including Reps. 
Eric Swalwell
 of California, 
Seth Moulton
 of Massachusetts, 
Jan Schakowsky
 of Illinois, and 
Jamie Raskin
 of Maryland.
While Porter now does not offer health insurance directly from her campaign, between January and December 2018 the campaign sent cash to Blue Shield for health insurance, stipends and premiums, 
records
 show.
No payments for health-related purposes are shown after that time. The campaign&#39;s only insurance payments this year were 
$333.50
 for workers&#39; compensation insurance. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
