
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News national correspondent Bryan Llenas joins &#39;America Reports&#39; with the details
The embattled 
New York
 Gov. 
Andrew Cuomo
 is refusing to resign from his governorship as more details emerge from dueling allegations involving sexual misconduct and his handling of 
COVID-19
 at nursing homes -- and as a growing number of legislators from both parties are calling for his ouster.
The New York State Assembly on Thursday initiated 
what&#39;s seen as the first step to impeaching
 the governor when they opened an investigation with full subpoena power.
&#34;The Democratic Conference is taking the first step toward impeachment by opening an investigation with full subpoena power to obtain facts and testimonies under oath,&#34; Democratic Assemblyman Ron Kim said in a statement obtained by Fox News on Thursday.

      Ron Kim and Andrew Cuomo (AP/ Reuters)
      
&#34;Some members, including myself, argued that we had enough admission to proceed with impeachment today but the conference is leaning toward setting up the process and structure toward impeachment,&#34; Kim said.
CUOMO ALLEGATIONS: NEW YORK STATE FILES POLICE REPORT IN ALBANY OVER GROPING CLAIM AT EXECUTIVE MANSION
More than half
 of New York state lawmakers, as well as other local politicians like New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, have called for the governor&#39;s resignation or impeachment since a sixth woman accused him of sexual misconduct on Tuesday and his administration 
admitted
 in February to undercounting 
thousands
 of COVID-19 nursing home deaths.
And in a new development, Albany police said Thursday they received a report from the New York State Executive Chamber, which is the governor&#39;s office, involving an incident with potential criminal activity.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The incident allegedly involved a female aide and took place at Cuomo&#39;s executive mansion. The news came just after the Albany Times Union reported on an allegation that Cuomo groped a female aide last year -- the sixth allegation of misconduct against the governor that has been reported over the last few months.
New York Attorney General Letitia James is investigating allegations, and the FBI and U.S. Attorney&#39;s Office in Brooklyn are investigating the nursing home scandal. Cuomo, who has 
denied
 recent 
allegations
 of harassment, reiterated Sunday afternoon that he will not resign until James completes her investigation.
Fox News&#39; Sam Dorman contributed to this report.
Audrey Conklin is a digital reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Email tips to audrey.conklin@fox.com. Follow her on Twitter at @audpants.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
