
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Former 
New York
 Attorney General 
Eric Schneiderman
 had his law license suspended for a year this week because of the domestic abuse allegations that led to his resignation in 2018, according to reports.
The Tuesday court decision came after New York&#39;s Attorney Grievance Committee had filed a petition last summer to keep him from practicing, according to The Wall Street Journal.
The disciplinary committee claimed he had violated professional conduct rules through the alleged abuse.
Schneiderman, a 
Democrat
, admitted to professional misconduct and to being &#34;verbally and emotionally abusive&#34; and slapping and applying pressure to women&#39;s necks without consent in the past, according to court documents in which he agreed to his suspension, The 
Journal
 reported. He has also agreed to keep seeing a mental health professional.
FORMER NY AG SCHNEIDERMAN&#39;S EX TANYA SELVARATNAM ALLEGES HE THREATENED TO KILL HER

      New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman pauses while speaking to reporters following a press conference to call for an end of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids in New York state courts, Aug. 3, 2017, in the Brooklyn borough of New York City. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
      
(Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
He abruptly resigned in May 2018 after several former girlfriends accused him of abusive behavior in a New Yorker magazine article after he had served as the state&#39;s attorney general since 2011.
His ex Tanya Selvaratnam also 
accused him of threatening to kill her
 during their relationship in a memoir she published this year.
In a statement to the 
New Yorker
 at the time, Schneiderman denied any abuse but later took responsibility for the accusations, 
the New York Daily News
 reported.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;In the privacy of intimate relationships, I have engaged in role-playing and other consensual sexual activity,&#34; he said in the 2018 statement. &#34;I have not assaulted anyone. I have never engaged in non-consensual sex, which is a line I would not cross.&#34;
The suspension goes into effect on May 28, according to 
The Hill
.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
