
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Andrew Yang
 remains the frontrunner in the race for 
New York City
 mayor with just over two months to go until the Democratic 
primary election
, a new public opinion poll indicates.
The 46-year old New York City entrepreneur and former presidential contender grabs the support of 22% of likely NYC Democratic voters in a 
Spectrum News NY1/Ipsos poll
 released Monday, topping a crowded field of mayoral candidates.
YANG HECKLED AT PROTEST OVER DEATH OF DAUNTE WRIGHT
Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams stands at 13% in the poll, with NYC Comptroller Scott Stringer in third place in the survey, at 11%, and Maya Wiley, who served as a top attorney in term-limited Mayor Bill de Blasio’s administration, at 7%.
Former Citi executive Ray McGuire, former Obama Cabinet member Shaun Donovan, former nonprofit leader Dianne Morales and former Sanitation Commissioner Kathryn Garcia are knotted up in the mid-single digits, according to the poll.
But just over a quarter of those surveyed – 26% – say they remain undecided.
The primary will be the first in New York to use ranked-choice voting, which allows those casting ballots to rank as many as five candidates in order of preference. If no candidate tops 50% – which is likely considering the crowded field – the ranked-choice voting becomes a factor.
Stringer tops the list for second choice – at 14% – with Yang at 13%, Adams at 10% and Wiley at 9%.

      New York City mayoral candidate Andrew Yang speaks at a press conference on Jan. 14, 2021 in New York City. (Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images)
      
(Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images)
Yang tops the list when it comes to familiarly among voters – at 77% – thanks to the national attention he grabbed in 2019 and early 2020, as the one-time longest of long shots for the Democratic presidential nomination saw his campaign briefly soar due, in part, to his push for each adult American to receive $1,000 a month as a part of a universal basic income.
Sixty-one percent of those questioned said they were familiar with Stringer, and 53% said they were familiar with Adams, who rose to the rank of captain during his two-plus decades in the New York City Police Department and who was the first Black person elected borough president of Brooklyn.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
With just over two months to go until the June 22 Democratic and Republican primaries, many of the candidates have yet to tap into millions in spent campaign cash, allowing them to go up with TV, digital, radio and print ads in the stretch run. The ads could be crucial since much of the field of contenders is unknown to most primary voters. The winner of the Democratic primary will be considered the front runner in November&#39;s election, as the city is a Democratic stronghold.
The poll was conducted April 1-15, with 1,000 likely Democratic primary voters questioned. The survey&#39;s sampling error is plus or minus 4.7 percentage points.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
