
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., reacts to the death of congressman-elect Luke Letlow from the coronavirus.
The widow of Rep.-elect 
Luke Letlow
, who died after contracting 
COVID-19
, will run to represent the 
Louisiana
 congressional district he was just days away from being sworn-in to serve.
Julia Letlow, a higher education professional, launched her congressional bid Thursday during an interview on KWCL-FM in Oak Grove, La., the same place where her late husband made his congressional announcement in March.
&#34;I am running to continue the mission Luke started -- to stand up for our Christian values, to fight for our rural agricultural communities, and to deliver real results to move our state forward,&#34; Letlow, R-La., said in an announcement statement. 
Luke Letlow died on Dec. 29, 2020, at the age of 41 from complications of coronavirus. He was to be sworn in on Jan. 3 to represent the 5th congressional district. He left behind his wife and two young children. 
Gov. John Bel Edwards set a special election to fill out the remainder of Letlow&#39;s term for March 20.
LUKE LETLOW, 41-YEAR-OLD CONGRESSMAN-ELECT, DIES WITH COVID-19
At least two other candidates who ran for the seat in last year&#39;s election have announced they intend to compete for the job again: Sandra &#34;Candy&#34; Christophe, an Alexandria Democrat who finished third in the race, and Allen Guillory, an Opelousas Republican.

      Luke and Julia Letlow with their children.
      
Julia Letlow said the couple were a team the last eight years and she traveled every corner of the northeastern and central Louisiana district with him for his successful congressional run.
&#34;Everything in my life and in my marriage has prepared me for this moment. My motivation is the passion Luke and I both shared: to better this region that we called home and to leave it a better place for our children and future generations,&#34; Letlow said in the statement.
LUKE LETLOW: WHAT TO KNOW ABOUT THE LATE CONGRESSMAN-ELECT
Julia Letlow, who has a Ph.D. in communication, works at the University of Louisiana at Monroe as top assistant to the president for external affairs and community outreach, among several jobs she&#39;s held in higher education. She&#39;s worked on political campaigns in north Louisiana and was an active participant in her husband&#39;s campaign, but she&#39;s a newcomer to running for office herself.
Letlow already picked up the endorsement of Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., the No. 2 House Republican. Scalise said the death of his friend, Luke, &#34;has been nothing short of devastating&#34; and Julia Letlow would be a welcome addition to the Louisana delegation. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
&#34;Julia shares the same commitment to public service and I can&#39;t think of anyone better to carry on Luke’s legacy in representing Louisiana’s 5th Congressional District,&#34; Scalise wrote on Twitter.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
