
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
President-elect 
Joe Biden
’s son 
Hunter Biden
, 
who has been under federal investigation,
 appeared at the Capitol on Wednesday for his father&#39;s inauguration ceremony.
The younger Biden entered through the Senate carriage entrance, accompanied by his wife and infant son.
BIDEN’S INAUGURATION: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW
 
&#34;All good, Hunter responded to a reporter asking for his thoughts about the day.
The federal probe, 
a government source told Fox News
 in December, was predicated, in part, by Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) regarding suspicious foreign transactions that another source said were related to transactions involving China and other foreign countries.

      President-elect Joe Biden&#39;s wife Jill Biden sits with Hunter Biden and his child during an event at the Major Joseph R. &#34;Beau&#34; Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center, Tuesday, Jan. 19, 2021, in New Castle, Del. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
      
In December, Hunter Biden acknowledged the probe but maintained he handled his affairs &#34;legally.&#34;
&#34;I take this matter very seriously but I am confident that a professional and objective review of these matters will demonstrate that I handled my affairs legally and appropriately, including with the benefit of professional tax advisors,&#34; he said at the time.
Hunter Biden’s foreign business dealings and the possible involvement of his father had been an issue during the 2020 presidential campaign, after emails reported to have been from Hunter’s laptop revealed conversations related to business with a Chinese-owned company.
TRUMP TRANSFERRING THE ‘NUCLEAR FOOTBALL’ TO BIDEN --- HOW IT WILL WORK ON INAUGURATION DAY
With a new administration comes a new attorney general. Biden’s nominee, Judge Merrick Garland, still has to face a confirmation hearing. A spokesperson for Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., told Fox News that it is &#34;very likely&#34; that the Hunter Biden probe will be addressed at the hearing.
Incoming White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, meanwhile, said before Garland’s nomination that Biden &#34;will not be discussing an investigation of his son with any attorney general candidates.&#34;
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
 
There had been talk towards the end of President Trump’s administration that a special counsel could be appointed to ensure that the investigation is not impacted by new DOJ leadership, but former Attorney General Bill Barr said he had &#34;not seen a reason&#34; to appoint one.
Fox News’ Brooke Singman contributed to this report.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
