
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Wisconsin Republican hits at the contradicting messaging coming from President Biden and federal health agencies on &#39;The Ingraham Angle&#39;
A 
Democrat
 running for 
Senate
 in 
Wisconsin
 has been charged with four felonies for allegedly stealing tens of thousands of dollars from her campaign and then lying about it.
Milwaukee City Councilwoman Chantia Lewis is one of several Democrats running for the Wisconsin Senate seat currently held by Republican Sen. Ron Johnson. 
Lewis is alleged to have stolen $21,000 in campaign funds, which the complaint says the council member dropped into her personal bank account and used for personal expenses. She allegedly filed false campaign finance reports related to her campaigns for Milwaukee City Council. 
Lewis faces felony charges for misconduct in office over the course of four years from 2016 to 2020, embezzling over $10,000, knowingly filing a false campaign report, and illegally distributing funds from her campaign account. 
Three of the felony charges include punishment up to a $10,000 fine and 3 1/2 years in prison. The embezzlement charge carries a possible max fine of $25,000 and up to 10 years in prison.
In a statement released through her campaign, Lewis attributed the charges to &#34;accounting errors&#34; and insisted she is &#34;innocent of any criminal wrongdoing.&#34; 
Johnson 
has not yet revealed
 whether he will seek a third term in 2022, though he said in 2016 that he would only seek two terms. 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
The Wisconsin Senate race is one of 
several key midterm battles
 for Republicans as they seek to regain a majority in the upper chamber. 
In addition to Lewis, the crowded Democratic Senate field includes Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes, state Treasurer Sarah Godlewski, and Alex Lasry, a businessman whose family owns the Milwaukee Bucks professional basketball team.
The Associated Press and Fox News&#39; Paul Steinhauser contributed reporting.
Houston Keene is a reporter for Fox News Digital. You can find him on Twitter at @HoustonKeene.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
