
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Kabul protesters waving Afghan national flags interrupted by Taliban gunfire, beatings
Taliban fighters Thursday opened fire on a group of protesters celebrating 
Afghanistan&#39;s
 independence day and waving the Afghan 
national flag
 in Kabul. 
Afghans gathered in the streets to commemorate the anniversary of a 1919 treaty that gave the country independence 
from Great Britain
 and waved the Afghanistan national flag, only to be dispersed by gunfire from Taliban forces.
In the video obtained by Fox News, Afghans who were upset that the Taliban changed the national flag after taking over the country on Sunday took to the streets of Kabul on foot and in cars waving the former national flag. Shots can be heard being fired by the Taliban and the crowd quickly disperses in panic. 
PENTAGON PRESSED ON WHY BRITISH PARATROOPERS LEAVING KABUL AIRPORT TO RESCUE CITIZENS BUT AMERICANS AREN&#39;T
&#34;In many cities, the Taliban opened gunfire and charged and beat the people,&#34; a source told Fox News, explaining that protesters were attacked by Taliban fighters across the country in similar fashion. 
&#34;May the Afghan flag fly forever,&#34; the protesters could be heard chanting while others shouted, &#34;Long live Ashraf Ghani&#34; in reference to the now-deposed former president of Afghanistan, who fled the country as the Taliban took control. 
&#34;May Afghanistan live forever,&#34; others chanted. 
MCENANY RIPS PSAKI FOR NOT HOLDING DAILY BRIEFINGS DURING AFGHANISTAN CRISIS
At least two people were 
reportedly
 killed in a similar protest in the country’s Kunar province after gunfire prompted a stampede.
U.S. forces are trying to evacuate thousands of American citizens and allies trapped in Kabul, where the Taliban has taken full control of the city with the sole exception of the Hamid Karzai International Airport, which 4,500 U.S. troops are currently occupying.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
President Biden has authorized 6,000 U.S. troops to deploy to Afghanistan to assist in the evacuation mission, as the Taliban pushes to restore the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan – the formal name of the country under the Taliban rule before the militants were ousted by U.S.-led forces in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. The attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, were orchestrated by al Qaeda while it was being sheltered by the Taliban in Afghanistan. 
The president, adamantly standing by his initial decision to withdraw all U.S. troops from Afghanistan by Aug. 31, outlined the current mission for the U.S. military in Afghanistan, saying it will be &#34;short in time, limited in scope and focused on our objectives: get our people and our allies as quickly and as safely as possible.&#34;
Fox News&#39; Lucas Y. Tomlinson contributed to this report.
Andrew Mark Miller is a writer at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter 
@andymarkmiller
 and email tips to AndrewMark.Miller@Fox.com
 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
