
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Angela Marsden, Pineapple Hill Grill &amp;amp; Saloon owner blames Newsom for causing &#39;humanitarian crisis&#39;
The petition to recall 
California’s
 Democratic Gov. 
Gavin Newsom
 has climbed above 1.9 million signatures with two weeks to go until its deadline, proponents announced Wednesday evening.
&#34;We have cleared another milestone, and now we are entering the final stretch of this part of the official campaign to remove California Governor Gavin Newsom from power and office,&#34; organizer Orrin Heatlie said in a 
statement
.

      After removing his mask to speak, California Gov. Gavin Newsom delivers comments while visiting one of San Luis Obispo County&#39;s vaccination centers at Cuesta College, Tuesday March 2, 2021, in San Luis Obispo, Calif. Newsom was critical of other states that are dropping their masking requirements. (David Middlecamp/The Tribune (of San Luis Obispo) via AP)
      
The petition needs just shy of 1.5 million signatures – but they need to be verified as authentic and the recall movement expects Newsom to challenge many of them in court, so they’ve continued collecting names.
OVER 80% OF SUBMITTED NEWSOM RECALL SIGNATURES HAVE BEEN VERIFIED
&#34;The people of California are speaking loud and clear, and we will continue to work tirelessly until the People of California become the final judge and jury on this recall,&#34; said Mike Netter, of the 
RecallGavin2020
 organization, the group behind the recall effort alongside the California Patriot Coalition.
On Feb. 20, when the petitioners had collected about 1.1 million signatures, more than 670,000 had been verified.
The deadline for organizers to submit signatures is on March 17. If the effort succeeds, a recall election would likely occur later this year.
A spokesperson for Newsom did not immediately respond to Fox News’ requests for comment.
In addition to the recall effort, Newsom is facing a low point in his approval ratings as well as criticism over his handling of the state&#39;s coronavirus response and vaccine rollout.
He 
even got sued
 by a high school student last month over his pandemic-induced ban on scholastic sports.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Although Californians have tried to recall their governors dozens of times over the years, the Golden State’s only other chief executive recalled from office was Gray Davis, also a Democrat, in 2003. He was replaced by the action movie star 
Arnold Schwarzenegger
, a Republican.
Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News. Follow him on Twitter at @mikerreports. If you&#39;ve got a tip, you can email him at Michael.Ruiz@Fox.com.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
