
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
U.S. Sen. 
Elizabeth Warren
, D-
Mass
., appeared to spend some time partying maskless during Interior Secretary Deb Haaland’s wedding in 
New 
Mexico 
Saturday in defiance of state 
COVID-19
 restrictions, according to a report.
Photos obtained by the 
Washington Free Beacon
 reportedly captured Warren and other guests partying indoors without masks at the wedding, located at a tribal resort in the state. The gathering occurred nearly two weeks after New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat, reimposed an indoor mask mandate -- regardless of vaccination status -- to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
&#34;The re-implemented mask requirement applies to all individuals aged 2 and older in all indoor public settings — except when eating or drinking,&#34; the governor&#39;s office stated 
in a press release
. &#34;The indoor mask requirement will be effective Friday, Aug. 20. It will remain in effect until at least September 15.&#34;
ELIZABETH WARREN BACKS NEWSOM IN RECALL FIGHT, ACCUSES ‘TRUMP REPUBLICANS’ OF ‘COMING TO GRAB POWER’
Interior Department spokeswoman Melissa Schwartz said guests had to be vaccinated to attend and wear masks according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (
CDC
) and New Mexico guidelines.

      Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) visits with striking Chicago teachers at Oscar DePriest Elementary School on October 22, 2019 in Chicago, Illinois. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)
      
((Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images))
The images showed Warren posing for a photo without a mask on, while Haaland – who married her longtime partner, Skip Sayre, at the wedding – was captured dancing with Sayre and sitting next to Democratic 
Kansas
 
congresswoman Sharice Davids, according to the Free Beacon.
NEW MEXICO DEM GOVERNOR USING UP TO $5M IN CORONAVIRUS RELIEF TO BOOST FARM WORKERS&#39; PAY: REPORT
&#34;Bruce and I were so happy to celebrate Deb and Skip this weekend. Congrats on your marriage,&#34; Warren, a Democrat, wrote on Facebook. 
Warren&#39;s office didn&#39;t immediately respond to a late-night request for comment from Fox News. 
Other politicians who got in trouble over masks during the pandemic include former President Barack Obama, 60, who held a birthday bash at his sprawling Martha’s Vineyard estate this month following an increase in 
coronavirus
 
cases. 
Last year, House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
 was 
caught on video
 getting her hair done without a mask while salons in San Francisco remained closed and California Gov. 
Gavin Newsom 
faced 
widespread criticism
 last November after he broke his own rules by mingling without a mask with California Medical Association officials at an upscale Napa restaurant.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Haaland is the first Native American woman to lead the Department of the Interior, which oversees federal and tribal lands and the country’s natural resources. The ceremony on Saturday incorporated elements honoring her Native American ancestry.
The spread of COVID-19 in New Mexico has increased in recent weeks due to the highly infectious Delta variant and &#34;primarily unvaccinated populations,&#34; according to the governor&#39;s office. On Monday, state health officials 
announced
 2,286 new COVID-19 cases. 
Fox News&#39; Jessica Chasmar and the Associated Press contributed to this report
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
