
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what&#39;s clicking on Foxnews.com.
Secretary of Defense 
Lloyd Austin
 is expected Friday to announce a mandatory 
vaccine policy
 for all active-duty forces in the U.S. military, Fox News has confirmed.
The directive that all 1.3 million service members will be required to get shots in their arms comes just days after President Biden urged all federal employees to get vaccinated
BIDEN SAYS AMERICANS SHOULD EXPECT MORE COVID RESTRICTIONS
In a speech last week, Biden said he was directing the Defense Department to examine how to make the COVID-19 vaccine mandatory. 
The Department of Justice was also asked by the president to look into the legality of mandating for the military a vaccine that has yet to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration. 
DOJ officials said a vaccine mandate would require a presidential waiver. 
Officials told Fox News that Austin will make his recommendation to the White House tomorrow, and the formal announcement is expected to come Friday. About 64% of active-duty forces are fully vaccinated. Among all U.S. adults, about 70% have received at least one shot. 
Last week, Biden said federal employees and on-site contractors would be required to get the vaccine or be subject to regular testing. 
The requirement affected the Defense Department’s civilian employees but did not extend to active-duty service members. The upcoming application to active-duty service members was first reported by the New York Times.
WHITE HOUSE WALKS BACK PREVIOUS STATEMENT ON POSSIBILITY OF NEW COVID LOCKDOWNS
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has reported a more than 64 percent increase in the number of coronavirus cases confirmed over the last seven days – bringing caseloads back on par with figures reported in mid-February.
Biden also warned that the U.S. could see increased restrictions as the highly contagious delta variant has surged nationwide, though he has yet to detail those limitations. 
CDC Director Rochelle Walensky told Fox News on Friday that the administration is looking into the possibility of a vaccine mandate in an effort to bolster vaccination rates.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Roughly 50 percent of the U.S. is vaccinated, and 58 percent have received at least one dose of the vaccine. 
The White House confirmed last week it is not considering another economic shutdown. 
Brianna McClelland contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
