
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Special Forces sniper Tim Kennedy tells &#39;Unfiltered with Dan Bongino&#39; that Sharia Law &#39;cannot exist with any form of humanity&#39;
Senate
 Majority Leader 
Chuck Schumer
 and 
House
 Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi
 are facing backlash on Twitter after videos showed them yucking it up over the weekend while 
Afghanistan
, and 
President Biden’s
 legacy, are under siege.
Schumer, D-N.Y., was spotted dancing backstage with late-night comedian Stephen Colbert during the &#34;We Love NYC: The Homecoming Concert&#34; in Central Park, which was cut short Saturday night due to inclement weather. A video of the dancing, tweeted by New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio spokesman Bill Neidhardt, racked up more than three million views.
CNN PANEL BLASTS BIDEN&#39;S &#39;BIZARRE&#39; MESSAGING: &#39;YOU HAVE TO QUESTION, IS THE PRESIDENT INSULATED, ISOLATED?&#39;
There were reportedly thousands of people at the &#34;Homecoming Concert,&#34; but Democrats and the media made no mention about it being a possible superspreader, 
as they did with an outdoor event 
attended by thousands of people in South Dakota just days ago.
Meanwhile, a video posted Sunday by New York Times reporter Kenneth Vogel shows Pelosi, D-Calif., talking about getting out the vote during a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) retreat in Napa Valley racked up over 650,000 views. Pelosi was criticized for the lack of diversity at the DCCC fundraiser and for donors not wearing masks while sitting within close proximity of each other.
&#34;These vulnerable Democrats will have plenty of time to sip expensive wine with Nancy Pelosi in Napa after voters fire them in the midterms,&#34; National Republican Congressional Committee spokesman Mike Berg said in a statement to Fox News.
The videos came one week after Afghanistan’s central government 
rapidly collapsed 
to the Taliban following the drawdown of the United States’ military presence in the country. President Biden has repeatedly defended pulling troops out of the country, which fell to Taliban insurgents in just 11 days. Footage shows a chaotic and dangerous scene at the airport in Kabul, where tens of thousands of U.S. citizens, Afghan allies and other Afghans vulnerable to Taliban reprisal are trying to flee the country.
Biden assured Americans just last month that a Taliban-takeover of Afghanistan was not likely and that he trusted &#34;the capacity of the Afghan military.&#34; The president 
largely avoided cameras
 during the debacle, watching it unfold from the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Biden was fiercely criticized Wednesday, three days after the collapse of Kabul, after he gave public remarks about COVID-19 and failed to address the situation in Afghanistan or take any questions.
Meanwhile, Vice President Kamala Harris, who previously said she had a key role in Biden’s decision to withdraw from Afghanistan, arrived in Singapore on Sunday and has been notably silent on the developments in Afghanistan except for a few tweets defending the pullout.
Fox News&#39; Bradford Betz contributed to this report. 
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You&#39;ve successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Factset
. Powered and implemented by 
FactSet Digital Solutions
. 
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by 
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      
